 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         37 MSc and MEng students deploy Big Data Infrastructure project for the UK Housing Associations with Microsoft UK
 
         
          
          

         
 
         We are delighted to announce, the Microsoft-UCL collaboration's latest and largest academic partnership project has just deployed it's first iteration to Microsoft UK. The UK Future Living platform was directed and co-supervised by Paul Foster from Microsoft UK. 
 
          
 It involved 37 students from MSc Software Systems Engineering, MSc Financial Systems Engineering and MEng Computer Science students working together as a hierarchy of teams on their study of Systems Integration, from UCL Computer Science. Well done to all of our students who over the space of just 10 weeks, worked on this huge collaboration, delivered their solution and presented their findings on Feb 18th 2014. 
 
 This is our largest student-to-client project to date, and covers the area of Big Data Infrastructure with the Internet of Things (IoT). The clients are the UK Housing Associations that manage housing for thousands, including on the poverty, disabled and elderly care lines. They came on board to invest time for on-site visits, extracting housing requirements, demonstrating existing systems and modelling their big data needs with the UCL teams.
 
 As a teaching paradigm, strict consulting rules of engagement amongst teams were formed. These included assigning team roles with individual work packages, team milestones and quality gates for approving submitted components to repositories, hierarchies of well formed requirements, team leaders appointed on each major component, integration points management for use cases and system architects overseeing the project.
 
 Amongst a number of firsts for us:

         	This was, currently, our largest class of software engineering students working together as one large team, with Microsoft engineers and researchers, on solving a significant infrastructure project for a real-world client.
	Large scale abstraction and modelling for IoT based data collection in a scenario that is now a template for subsequent Hadoop-for-devices-data  projects.
	Suggested cloud, devices and analytics API infrastructure patterns and trialled approaches have been proposed for future development teams.
	The first academic implementation of Microsoft Research's Orleans platform for a client project, with thanks to Microsoft UK for this steering!
	HDInsight on Azure being successfully utilised by students working for a client, which was very gratefully received, enabling all of the students to have Hadoop based big data analytics experience.
	The design and development of UCL CAPTAIN devices - no-screen cloud-connected low power computing (in the size of a smoke alarm) used for interacting wirelessly with user-centred zones of sensors and devices.
	Opening up related interest to this type of IoT solution architecture including healthcare, transportation, security and other public services.


          A full presentation by the students was delivered on Feb 18th 2014, at Microsoft's Victoria Office in London. This was presented to the Advanced Teaching Group panel from UCL CS, the CTO of Microsoft's Cloud UK, Microsoft UK technical staff, the UK Housing Associations CEOs and also the Managing Director of the largest Housing Associations software, who contributed towards the software systems integration. The feedback was that of a significantly stunned and greatly appreciative client base! The students gave a thorough and well explained story to their hardware, software and services solution, with live demonstrations, from start to finish. 
 
 Our sincerest thanks to Paul, Geoff, Rob and David at Microsoft UK  and especially the outstanding student teams for making this collaborative project possible!
 
 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 19 Feb 14 15:34 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Records of Web filtering... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Computer Science crochet...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
