 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Industry & Outreach ›› Alumni 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Alumni & Friends of the Department

        
 
         
         
        We are very proud of our alumni and of their achievements and are keen to keep in touch and involve our former students in our future development. Many of our alumni return for further education or to attend professional courses. They play an active role in shaping our programmes and contribute to our teaching and our curriculum. They frequently return to recruit our latest graduates or simply to join us at one of our Alumni Events. For more information contact Steve Marchant.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Alumni Online Community

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Alumni Online Community (AOC) is designed to help alumni connect with fellow former students worldwide. Once registered on the main site you can update your details, set contact preferences and access e-journals. You’ll also be able to register for the exclusive networking area enabling you to search the directory for friends and mentors, volunteer to mentor alumni and students and post/search for jobs from your exclusive alumni community. Registered alumni have access to:

        	E-journals - thousands of e-journals available through UCL Library
	A global network - find old friends or make news ones from the worldwide alumni community
	Free mentoring - offer professional advice or search for alumni mentors
	Jobs - post and view jobs from the exclusive alumni community


        Click below to join. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Latest Alumni News

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         GCHQ accelerator selects UCL cyber security start-up

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Seven UK start-ups focused on security issues and threats have been selected for an accelerator run by the UK’s Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ). The shortlisted companies include CounterCraft, Cyberowl, Cybersmart, FutureScaper, Spherical Defence, StatusToday and Verimuchme. Spherical Defence, a Cyber Security start-up from Pune, was co-founded by UCL MSc Information Security graduate, Dishant Shah.
 
          Alongside the role of co-founder and Cambridge graduate Jack Hopkins, Spherical Defence builds artificial intelligent security for banks. The start-up pioneers an intrusion detection... [more]
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL alum receives Google grant towards automated fact-checking

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Google has given €150,000 to three UK organisations, including UCL, who are working on fact-checking projects to help journalists and the public avoid falling for fake stories and bogus claims. The money is part of a €24m (£20.5m) round of funding from Google’s digital news initiative. €50,000 is being given to a project called Factmata, developed at UCL and led by Dhruv Ghulati, MSc Computer Science graduate, with Dr Sebastian Riedel, Reader in Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning. In its pitch to Google, Factmata’s founder, Dhruv Ghulati, said it would use machine intelligence “to empower people to question the digital content they read on a daily basis, and not take anything for granted” ... [more]
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Ask The Alumni with UCLU TechSoc

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          UCL Computer Science worked together with UCLU TechSoc to host Ask the Alumni - a series of talks, panel discussion and Q&A to give current students the chance to hear about our alumni, what they've done since graduating and how their degree has helped them in the tech industry. We would like to thank our panelists Joe Nicholson (Chief Operating Officer, ION Trading), Richard Bravery (Blackrock), Sophia Qureshi(Fraud Consultant, SAS Software UK), Pat Sumby (Director of Global Engineering, Sohonet), Calvin Dudek (Freelance Data Scientist) and Daniel Quercia (Bell Labs Cambridge). The event was the formal launch of TechSoc's Alumni Network which is open to all UCL graduates working in a tech company, or technical role in a non-tech company. The goal of the network is to encourage the formation and maintenance of personal connections in the technology industry, within the UCL community (regardless of degree of study) after graduation. Alumni can join the network here.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Class of '06 back @ UCL

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          In June we welcomed our Class of '06 back for a reunion at UCL. Joined by Prof Philip Treleaven and Dr Licia Capra, who both taught our Alumni during their time studying with us, our guests enjoyed a tour of the Department and an exclusive champagne reception on the Wilkins Roof Garden.
 
          On a warm summers afternoon our Class of '06 shared old photos, reminisced about their time here and caught up with friends. They also heard about the latest news and developments at UCL Computer Science. The Department was also deeply grateful to receive a donation from our Class of '06. We will keep Alumni... [more]
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Campaign: It's All Academic

        
 
         
         
        From fighting dementia to ensuring generations of students reach their full potential: It's All Academic. UCL’s ideas and discoveries are shaping the future, improving lives and having a massive impact on London and the wider world. Philanthropy founded UCL as a home for disruptive thinkers. Now, nearly 200 years later, we are asking you to pledge your support to the 'It's All Academic' Campaign. Volunteer your time or donate your money to back the future of UCL and help us transform how the world is understood. See more about the campaign in the video below and on the UCL Campaign's website here.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
 
         
           
        
 
         
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Keep up-to-date – join our mailing list, get involved & stay in touch

        
 
         
         
        
          
           
          We produce a monthly newsletter highlighting some of the latest research, collaboration and teaching news from the department. 
 
          If you would like to join our mailing list please email computerscience-alumni@ucl.ac.uk 
 
          Don't forget to follow us on Facebook, Twitter & LinkedIn too.
 
           
         

         
          
           
            
             
            

           
 
           
            
             
            

           
 
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Events

        
 
         
         
        If you join our mailing list we will also keep you informed about the latest CS Alumni Events. In addition to our Annual Alumni Dinner, the Department hosts a vareity of Distinguished Lectures, careers and employer days, book launches and industry events. Checkout our event page here.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Gift of Time: Volunteering

        
 
         
         
        Our volunteers are at the forefront of our position as one of the world’s leading universities. Your time and expertise can be used to benefit UCL, our students and staff in number of valuable ways across a variety of roles. Volunteering can be a rewarding and enjoyable experience that may help you make new professional and personal connections. We are sure you will find a fulfilling role and can assure you that you will be supported by our dedicated and highly experienced Alumni Relations team.
 
        All our volunteers are part of a recognition scheme which launched in 2016, and they directly contribute to the Campaign for UCL through the gift of their time and expertise. Time contributions are recorded and when key milestones are reached our volunteers receive awards to say thank you. See more about volunteering and mentoring opportunities here. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Calling all Computer Science graduates - tell us what you are doing now!

        
 
         
         
        We are always interested to hear what you are doing now and we would really appreciate it if you get in touch with a couple of paragraphs about where you are now (Company, University, Country etc), what your role/research is, and how you attribute that success to your time spent with UCL Computer Science. We collect interesting case studies of past students to publish in our promotional material and to help advise new students about various career and study opportunities. To get in touch please contact Steve Marchant.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Help your department to invest in students, staff and facilities

        
 
         
         
        We want to make sure our students have the best possible educational experience and we are eager to maintain and enhance our reputation for research excellence. Our expert staff deliver world-leading teaching and conduct cutting edge research, but they need the best resources available to them. You can help by making a gift to your department. Your generosity will provide a source of income which can be used to respond to growing needs and opportunities. From supporting student scholarships to investing in new facilities, 100% of your gift will be directed to areas of the greatest importance within the department. You can make a gift online or set up a regular donation using direct debit. Give now.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 06 Mar 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
