 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Anthony Steed wins 2016 VGTC Virtual Reality Technical Achievement Award
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The  2016  Virtual  Reality  Technical  Achievement  Award  has been awarded to  Anthony  Steed, Head of the Virtual Environments and Computer Graphics group at UCL Computer Science, in  recognition  of  developments  that  have  significantly advanced research, engineering and applications of virtual reality systems. 
 
         The IEEE VGTC Virtual Reality Technical Achievement Award was established in 2005. It is given every year to recognize an individual for a seminal technical achievement in virtual and augmented reality, and VGTC members nominate individuals for the Virtual Reality Technical Achievement Award.
 
         Anthony’s work has spanned a broad range of topics concerned with the engineering and application of virtual reality systems. One theme of engineering work has been virtual environment systems. This started with his PhD work on visual programming language for virtual reality. It has continued with work on distributed systems and 
 
         novel system architectures. A second theme has been effective interfaces for 3D user interaction using novel displays and interfaces that use body language and eye-gaze. A particular focus recently has been on low-latency interaction. 
 
         Complementing the engineering work, are several themes of evaluation, including presence within virtual environments, and supporting successful collaboration at a distance. In 2009, Anthony was the lead author of the book “Networked Graphics”, which summarises the state of the art in the field of distributed virtual environments.
 
         Since 2005 Anthony has led the Virtual Environments and Computer Graphics group at UCL. He is also the Director of UCL’s Centre for Virtual Environments, Interaction and Visualisation, which runs a large doctoral training programme with over 50 partner companies. 
 
         Anthony is a member of the IEEE Visualization & Graphics Technical Committee and was program chair for IEEE Virtual Reality in 2007, 2008 & 2009. He was a founding editor of the journals Computational Visual Media, Frontiers in Robotics and AI, Virtual Environments and 
 
         IEEE Transaction on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games. He is an associate editor of International Journal of Human Computer Science and IEEE Transactions on Visualisation and Computer Graphics. He is also Chief Technology Officer of Asio Ltd, creators of Chirp (chirp.io).
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 14 Apr 16 15:43 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Public events announced... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL partnership to...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
