 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Big Data's Unexplored Frontier: Recorded Music
 
         
          
          

         
 
         While still a vast field, a huge part of machine learning exists for what may seem to be a relatively narrow subset of problems. These are problems involving visual processing: character recognition, facial recognition, the generation of trippy images dominated by populations of dogslugs, birdlegs, and spidereyes.
 
         This isn't accidental. Image data is unique in its suitability for machine learning tasks. It naturally occurs as multidimensional arrays—tensors, really—of pixel data. It's more at the fringes of machine learning that audio data gets a turn. Part of the problem is that, despite the vast amounts of digital audio data that exists in the world, there is a relative lack of openly accessible computational datasets. There's pretty much just one, actually: the Million Song Dataset, which offers some 280 GB of feature data extracted from 1 million audio tracks. Musicology remains largely old-school.
 
         A group of computer scientists based at UCL, Queen Mary University and City, University of London wants to change this. To that end, they've developed the Digital Music Lab (DML) system, a large-scale open-source framework for the analysis of musical data that, crucially, allows for the remote analysis of copyrighted materials (read: most music). "Our first installation has access to a collection of over 1.2 million audio recordings from multiple sources across a wide range of musical cultures and styles, of which over 250,000 have been analysed so far, producing over 3TB of features and aggregated data," they write in ACM Journal on Computing and Cultural Heritage.
 
         The project started in earnest in 2014 with an initial workshop attended by 48 musicologists of varying technical backgrounds. It was basically a big discussion of the problem laid out above (the lack of computational resources for analyzing music data) and what might be done to solve it. The first part of that was just the dataset itself, which should contain basic metadata about individual samples and information about where they can be accessed. The second is the actual analysis.
 
         This is the hard part. Each individual recording contains millions of data points that need to be analyzed for musical content, with the result being that each one of those recordings requires about as much processor time as the length of the recording.
 
         "The data are richly structured: there is not just one analysis needed but several different ones, for example, for melody, harmony, rhythm, timbre, similarity structure, and so on," the researchers explain. "These create a rich set of relations within and between works and collections that is more complex than, for instance, typical textual data."
 
         Read the full article that appears at http://motherboard.vice.com/read/big-datas-unexplored-frontier-recorded-music.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 23 Jan 17 15:39 
         
 
          
          
           Next: GCHQ accelerator selects... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Bug-finding MaJiCKe...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
