 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Bug-finding MaJiCKe finds a home at Facebook
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The UCL Computer Science team behind spinout software testing technology MaJiCKe are moving on to work with Facebook in London. The technology uses the academic field of Search Based Software Engineering to remove ‘much of the drudgery’ of testing software, while still finding bugs.
 
         The company’s three co-founders Prof Mark Harman (Scientific Advisor), Dr Yue Jia (CEO), and Ke Mao (CTO) are members of UCL Computer Science's Centre for Research on Evolution, Search and Testing (CREST) and are currently partly funded by the UK’s Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council. 
 
         Prof Harman co-founded the whole field of Search Based Software Engineering (SBSE) in 2001. Dr Jia harnessed the power of computational search for software testing, while Ke Mao demonstrated how these techniques can be exploited for Android testing, in the world’s first automated test tool able to minimise the length of tests required while maximising the amount of code checked.
 
         These insights are combined to make the key product for MaJiCKe, Sapienz, which uses SBSE to find the situations that cause crashes as quickly as possible. While finding crashes might not sound like a positive, you have to find them before you can fix them.
 
         Professor Harman said: “We are all very excited to have this outstanding opportunity to achieve real world impact for UCL’s excellent Software Engineering research.” 
 
         Academic spinouts are just one of the ways that UCL researchers use their work to change the world. UCL Engineering Vice-Dean (Enterprise) Jane Butler said: “We provide an atmosphere to nurture collaborations with industry, its great to see a team like this taking their world leading expertise to Facebook”.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 19 Jan 17 13:27 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Big Data's Unexplored... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL students learn...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
