 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Teaching and Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	How to apply
	Important Considerations
	Transfers to other Computer Science programmes
	Transfers to other Departments


          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        How to apply

        	Read the guidance on the UCL Student Web Pages - www.ucl.ac.uk/current-students/services_2/registration_status
	Complete the application form at www.ucl.ac.uk/current-students/services_2/programmechange
	Submit the form to the Departmental Tutor, Dr Graham Roberts, Room GS1.03, 66-72 Gower Street
	If Dr Roberts is not available you can also submit the form to the Undergraduate Administrators, Room 5.22, MPEB and they will forward it to the Departmental Tutor on your behalf.  


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Important Considerations 
 
        Transferring to another programme will almost certainly affect your degree title and the modules that you follow.  However, it can also affect other aspects of your study including financial or sponsorship arrangements and your Visa. 
 
        Before proceeding you should make sure that you are aware of all of the effects by reading the information on the UCL Student Web Pages - http://www.ucl.ac.uk/current-students/services/studyinformation/changecourse 
 
        You should also note the following:

        	All transfers are subject to approval by the Computer Science Departmental Tutor, Dr Graham Roberts.  
 
	You will need to complete paperwork to apply for any transfers before they can be considered.  


        

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Transfers to other Computer Science programmes 
 
        The BSc and MEng programmes in Computer Science share a common core for the first two years and during this time it is possible for students to transfer between the two programmes.  

The MEng International programme shares a common first year with the BSc and MEng programmes after which time students begin to prepare for their study abroad.  Before this time students are also permitted to transfer to or from the programme.  
 
 
        

        
         

         	Transfers into the BSc Computer Science programme:


         	Should be applied for before the end of the second year.
	Failure to meet MEng progression requirements for year 3 will result in automatic transfer to the BSc.


         	Transfers into the MEng Computer Science programme: 


         	Require students to be capable of achieving a second year weighted average of 60% or more.  
	Require all modules in years 1 and 2 to have been passed.
	Should be applied for before the end of the second year.   


         	Transfers into the MEng International programme: 


         	Should be applied for before the end of the first year.  
	Applicants should discuss the possibility of transferring to this programme with the Study Abroad Tutor, Dr Earl Barr, in the first instance.  


         	Transfers to the Mathematical Computation programme: 


         	Are not expected to be possible past the first week of the first term of the programme. 


         

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Transfers to other departments 
 
        If you wish to apply to transfer to a programme in another UCL department you should note the following:

        	You will generally have to start from the first year of the programme that you wish to join. 
	Any such transfer would be subject to the being sufficient space in the programme you wish to join. 
	You should check that you can meet the A-Level, (or equivalent), entry requirements for the programme.  See the online prospectus for further details - www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/undergraduate/degrees
	You will need permission from both your current Departmental Tutor and the Departmental Tutor of the programme that you wish to join. 
	You may have to have an interview or other admissions test as part of the application to change programme.  


        

        

        

        
 
         
       

       To top
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Chris Neil 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
