 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Chris Smith wins Google Fellowship
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Chris Smith CS PhD student, has won a Google Fellowship (worth $60,000 per year, for 3 years) to carry out research in the area of data mining for development. In its 5th year, Google PhD Fellows from around the world are a select group recognized by Google researchers and their institutions as some of the most promising young academics in the world. Congratulations to Chris. 
 
         Chris describes is research as ‘data mining for development’. 
 
         ‘The increasing ubiquity of computing devices in peoples’ lives and the rich data they produce suggest a novel approach to tackling these problems. In my PhD I propose to mine the digital traces of urban residents found in large-scale datasets describing human mobility and communication patterns. This will result in the discovery of features that correlate with socioeconomic factors of neighbourhoods. In addition, I aim to increase our understanding of the wider effects of intervention and regeneration projects by modelling the spatial and temporal patterns of deprivation and inequality and the ways in which these patterns relate to the complex interactions between different parts of the city. 
 
         From this I will then develop novel methods that exploit the continuous production of data from these sources in such a way that areas in most need of intervention can be identified quickly and at very low cost, and the effects of alternative strategies can be explored through predictive modelling and simulation. Finally, it is important to demonstrate the potential of the methods developed to provide real utility to public policymakers and citizens. I will therefore investigate, through user studies involving prototypes and simulations, the ways in which users interact with the data models, and how complexity and uncertainty can be successfully conveyed to users.’ 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 02 Jul 13 09:07 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL software reveals... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Niloy Mitra wins ACM...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
