 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Coding 'transplant' could revolutionise programming
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Code has been automatically "transplanted" from one piece of software to another for the first time, with researchers claiming the breakthrough could radically change how computer programs are created.
 
         The process, demonstrated by researchers at University College London, has been likened to organ transplantation in humans. Known as MuScalpel, it works by isolating the code of a useful feature in a 'donor' program and transplanting this "organ" to the right "vein" in software lacking the feature. Almost all of the transplant is automated, with minimal human involvement.
 
         Automated transplants of features between apps could free human programmers from tedious, manual work and make developing software faster and cheaper.
 
         "As any programmer will attest, a large amount of programming work consists of this kind of manual transplantation work; redesigning, implementing and reinventing functionality that already exists in some form on some other system." Mark Harman, head of Software Systems Engineering told wired.co.uk. "By automating it, we make it much faster and cheaper."
 
         To demonstrate the system, Harman's team successfully transplanted a video coding format from one media player to another. The H.264 codec, which used to be lacking in VLC media player, was transplanted from x264. It took the automated system 26 hours to complete the transplant, while VLC's manual addition of the code happened over a period of 20 days.
 
         The system could be used to transplant anything from automatic save features to social media integration, video chat, spellcheckers and even video and audio processing.
 
         At present it only works on the C programming language, but there is nothing to stop it being applied to others. Eventually it may even be possible to transplant features between languages and platforms with no human involvement whatsoever. The team has published a paper detailing how MuScalpel works, along with the software's source code, in the hope that more developers will get involved.
 
         Read the complete story on Wired's news pages.

         
          The research team behind MuScalpel is pictured, from left to right, Bill Langdon, Mark Harman, Alex Marginean, Justyna Petke, Earl Barr, Yue Jia.

         
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 30 Jul 15 16:01 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Artificial intelligence... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Engineering & The...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
