 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GF03 - Compliance, Risk and Regulation 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGF03 - Compliance, Risk and Regulation

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGF03
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	It is recommended that students take COMPGS06 Financial Institutions and Markets (or it's equivalent) in term one. Successful completion of Introduction to Securities and Investment administered by the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment is also a suitable prerequisite. If unsure, contact module tutor for further guidance.
	Term	2
	Taught By	Donald Lawrence and Industrial SMEs 
	Aims	The module will familiarize participants with compliance department processes in risk governance per requirements of regulators, shareholders, management and clients.  Develop understanding of the major role of implementing the dynamic regulatory requirements in financial centers and the interdependence on risk IT, models and computational finance. 
	Learning Outcomes	Familiarization with different lines of risk governance; BoD, executive management, business unit, independent functions, and internal audit.  Understanding of interactions between business heads, compliance, risk and regulators. How interactions are evolving in rules based environment, and what IT/computational solutions are explored/employed.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Foundations of the compliance environment
The module will present the foundations of the compliance environment in a financial institution/financial department of a firm. Examine accounting and legal governance best practice, and what key functional roles are carried out. 
 
         Market, credit, operational and liquidity risk, stress testing 
Examine the definitions, the key organisational guidelines, reporting structure, industry best practice, the int’l regulatory environments. Explore FT-Tax, Volker rule and OTC move to exchange model, etc. How will FI's business model morph, minimizing expense whilst delivering sustainable risk adjusted RoE in the environment of new capital, margin and reporting requirements and onslaught of disruptive technology and falling barriers to entry.   
 
         Organisations
Compare major OECD regulatory organisations, what are their domestic agendas and overlapping coverage. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, associated case studies, labs, tutorials & UCL Finds debates & speakers. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 70%)
	Academic/Industrial Coursework (30%)


          To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Geithner, 'Stress Test', Crown 2014  
 
         Crouhy/ Galai/ Mark, ‘The Essentials of Risk Management’, McGrawHill 2006 
 
         Lowenstein, 'When genius failed', Random Hse 2000
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
