 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM058 - Bioinformatics 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM058 - Bioinformatics

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM058 (Also taught as: COMPGI10) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	It is expected that students will already be familiar with the principles of techniques such as neural networks, Support Vector Machines, and ideally Hidden Markov Models from earlier parts of their degree course. Also, students will need to have taken the Supervised Learning option (4055) 
	Term	2
	Taught By	David Jones (66%) 
Kevin Bryson (33%) 
	Aims	The overall aim of this course is to introduce students to the new field of bioinformatics (computational biology) and how machine learning techniques can be employed in this area. The course is aimed at students who have no previous knowledge of biology and so the aim of Part 1 of the course is to give a basic introduction to molecular biology as a background for bioinformatics. Part 2 will concentrate on modern bioinformatics applications, particularly those which make good use of pattern recognition and machine learning methods. 
	Learning Outcomes	To have a basic knowledge of modern molecular biology and genomics. To understand the advantages and disadvantages of different machine learning techniques in bioinformatics and how the relative merits of different approaches can be evaluated by correct benchmarking techniques. To understand how theoretical approaches can be used to model and analyse complex biological systems. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         
Part 1: Basic molecular biology (6 lectures)
    Introduction to Basic Cell Chemistry: Cell chemistry and macromolecules. Biochemical pathways e.g. Glycolysis. Protein structure and functions. 
          

          

          Part 1
         
         	Cell Structure and Function: Cell components. Different types of cell. Chromosome structure and organisation. Cell division.
	The Hereditary Material: DNA structure, replication and protein synthesis. Structure and roles of RNA. Genetic code. Mechanism of protein synthesis: transcription and translation. Mutation. 
	Recombinant DNA Technology: Restriction enzymes. Hybridisation techniques. Gene cloning. Polymerase chain reaction. 
	Genomics and Structural Genomics: Genes, genomes, mapping and DNA sequencing.


         


          Part 2: Bioinformatics Applications (3 lectures per subject)
          
Biological Databases: Overview of the use and maintenance of different databases in common use in biology. Case study: the CATH database of protein structure. 
          

          

          Part 2

         
         	Gene Prediction: Methods for analysing genomic DNA to identify genes. Techniques: neural networks and HMMs.
	Detecting Distant Homology: Methods for inferring remote relationships between genes and proteins. Techniques: dynamic programming, HMMs, hierachical clustering. 
	Protein Structure Prediction: Methods for predicting the secondary and tertiary structure of proteins. Techniques: neural networks, SVMs, genetic algorithms and stochastic global optimization. 
	Transcriptomics: Methods for analysing gene expression and microarray data. Techniques: clustering, SVMs.
	Agent-based Genome Analysis: Automation of genome analysis using intelligent software agents
	Drug Discovery Informatics: Approaches to drug discovery using bioinformatics techniques 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class problems and group presentation/discussion of key research papers
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 85%)
	Coursework Section (1 individual mini-project, 15%)


         To pass this module, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
         The examination rubric is: 
 
         Answer THREE questions out of FIVE. All questions cary equal marks. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Biochemistry- Lubert Stryer, WH Freeman and Co. 
 
         Post-genome Informatics, M. Kanehisa, Oxford University Press. 
 
         Bioinformatics- Genes, Proteins and Computers, C.A. Orengo, D.T. Jones and 
 
          J.M. Thornton, BIOS Scientific Publishers, 2003 
 
         Mathematical Biology, J.D. Murray, Springer, 1993. 
 
         Other references (including research papers) to be confirmed.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
