 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Computer Science collaborates with Google to track flu outbreaks
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL and i-sense have joined forces with Google to contribute to the earlier global detection of influenza outbreaks. 
 
         Each year, seasonal influenza affects many thousands of people in the UK and millions worldwide, producing symptoms ranging from those similar to a common cold through to very severe symptoms and in some cases, death. In contrast, pandemic influenza is unpredictable and has the potential to cause severe illness and death in large numbers.  
 
         The Google Flu Trends service uses flu‐related search queries to map flu activity in near real‐time. These trends can be used to complement other influenza surveillance systems such as sentinel networks. 
 
         i‐sense, an EPSRC‐funded collaboration in Early‐Warning Sensing Systems for Infectious Diseases led by UCL, are  combining the use of web data with low‐cost, mobile phone‐connected diagnostics for the early detection of infectious diseases, including  flu. 
 
         In 2009, Google pioneered the development of search engines to track the spread of influenza (Ginsberg, Nature 2009). 
 
         i‐sense will work with Google to develop their models for estimating flu. This would support a more accurate picture of influenza‐like illnesses in the UK. 
 
         i-sense researcher Dr Vasileios Lampos, from the Department of Computer Science at UCL, has joined Google as a visiting researcher  to work on improvements to modeling techniques using digital data. 
 
         Dr Lampos was one of the first to demonstrate the use of Twitter data to track flu, during his PhD at Bristol University (Lampos and Cristianini, 2010). 
 
         Steve Crossan, Product Manager at Google, said of the collaboration: 
 
         “We’re very happy to have Dr Lampos join us and bring his expertise to the team as a visiting researcher. It’s a model we’re hoping to extend if successful”. 
 
         Professor Rachel McKendry, Director of i‐sense and Professor at the London Centre for Nanotechnology, UCL, added: 
 
         “We are delighted to form this collaboration with Google. This represents a significant milestone in our mission to build early-warning sensing systems to help protect populations from deadly pandemics”.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 12 Jan 15 12:20 
         
 
          
          
           Next: SnapIT >

          
 
          
           < Previous: REF2014: UCL Computer...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
