 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional)
      ›› COMPG0 ›› COMPG014 - Machine Learning with Applications in Finance 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG014 - Machine Learning with Applications in Finance

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG014
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students must be familiar with basic probability and statistics concepts. Students should typically have a background in Finance.
	Term	2
	Taught By	Daniel Fricke (100%)
	Aims	The module introduces students to the field of Machine Learning with a focus on supervised and unsupervised learning, presenting specific applications in Finance for each subtopic.
	Learning Outcomes	Students will become familiar with the basic concepts and methods of machine learning and develop practical skills to use these in financial applications.
 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         In addition to a General Introduction to the topic, students will also cover the following: 
 
         Introduction to supervised learning

         	Linear regression.
	Model selection and regularization. Application: regularizing investment portfolios.
	Logistic regression.
	Regression trees and random forests. Application: mortgage lending and discrimination.
	Support vector machines. Application: predicting default risk.
	Neural networks. Application: forecasting financial time-series.


         Introduction to unsupervised learning

         	Clustering. Application: detecting clusters in correlation matrices.
	Principal components. Application: principal components in correlations matrices.


         Throughout there will be a strong emphasis on practical aspects with programming exercises in Matlab.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         3 hours of lectures per week.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (50%)
	Written examination (2.5 hours, 50%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended Texts
 Alpaydin, E., Introduction to Machine Learning, MIT Press, 2010
 Rogers, S., Girolami, M., A First Course in Machine Learning, CRC Press, 2012 
 
         Further Reading
 Hastie, T., Tibshirani R., Friedman, J., The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction, Springer, 2011
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
