 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMP3072 - Image Processing 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3072 - Image Processing

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3072 (Also taught as: COMPGV12 Image Processing) 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of the Computer Science, Mathematics and Computer Science or other Physical Science or Engineering programme with sufficient mathematical and programming content. 
	Term	1
	Taught By	Lourdes Agapito (100%) 
	Aims	The first half of this course introduces the digital image, describes the main characteristics of monochrome digital images, how they are represented and how they differ from graphics objects. It covers basic algorithms for image manipulation, characterisation, segmentation and feature extraction in direct space. The second half of the course proceeds to a more formal treatment of image filtering with some indication of the role and implications of Fourier space, and more advanced characterisation and feature detection techniques such as edge and corner detection, together with multiresolution methods, treatment of colour images and template matching techniques. The course allows students to explore a range of practical techniques, by developing their own simple processing functions either in a language such as Java and/or by using library facilities and tools such as MatLab or IDL. 
	Learning Outcomes	To understand (i.e., be able to describe, analyse and reason about) how digital images are represented, manipulated, encoded and processed, with emphasis on algorithm design, implementation and performance evaluation. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction to the digital image
Why digital images? 
The (film and) digital camera. 
Data types and 2d representation of digital images.

Characteristics of grey-level digital images
Discrete sampling model.
 Quantisation.
 Noise processes.
 Image attributes.

Segmentation
Thresholding and thresholding algorithms.
 Performance evaluation and ROC analysis.
 Connected components labelling.
 Region growing and region adjacency graph (RAG).
 Split and merge algorithms.

Image transformations
Grey level transformations.
 Histogram equalization.
 Geometric transformations.
 Affine transformations.
 Polynomial warps.

Morphological operation
Erode and dilate as max and min operators on binary images.
 Open, close, thinning and other transforms.
 Medial axis transform.
 Introduction to grey-level morphology. 
 
         Image filtering
Fourier descriptors.
Linear and non-linear filtering operations.
 Image convolutions.
 Separable convolutions.
 Sub-sampling and interpolation as convolution operations. 
 
         FFeature characterisation
Calculation of region properties.
 Moment features.
 Boundary coding line descriptors from boundary coding and from moments.
 Image search and multi-resolution algorithms. 
 
         EEdge and corner detection
Edge enhancement by differentiation.
 Effect of noise, edge detection and Canny implementation.
 Edge detector performance evaluation.
 Image structure tensor.
 Relationship to image auto-correlation.
 Characterisation and Harris corner detector.

Colour images
Representations of colour in digital images.
 Colour metrics.
 Pixel-wise (point) operations.
 Colour invariants and Finlayson colour constancy algorithm.

TeTemplate matching and advanced topics
Similarity and dissimilarity matching metrics.
 L2 metric and relationship to cross-correlation2D object detection, recognition, location. 
 Sub-pixel accuracy and performance evaluation. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class coursework and laboratory sessions. There are 4 pieces of coursework, all weighted equally. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 80%);
	Coursework Section (3 pieces, 20%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all componenets combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         
Gonzales/ Woods/ Eddins, Digital Image Processing using MATLAB, 2nd edition, Gatesmark Publishing, ISBN 9780982085400

         N.Efford, Digital Image Processing, Addison Wesley 2000, ISBN 0-201-59623-7
 
         M Sonka, V Hlavac and R Boyle, Image Processing, Analysis and Machine Vision, PWS 1999, ISBN 0-534-95393-X
 
         W K Pratt, Digital Image Processing, John Wiley and Sons, 1991, ISBN 0-471-85766-1
 
         R Jain, R Kasturi and B G Schunck, Machine Vision, McGraw-Hill, 1995, ISBN 0-07-113407-7 
 
         Copy of lecture notes/overheads, Coursework assignments, Guidance notes for courseworks
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
