 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› GA19 - Philosophy, Politics and Economics of Security and Privacy 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGA19 - Philosophy, Politics and Economics of Security and Privacy

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGA19
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	COMPGA01 Computer Security 1
	Term	2
	Taught By	Tristan Caulfield and David Pym
	Aims	Upon completion of the course the students are expected to be:

             	Aware of the conceptual foundations of security policy and technology and their role in delivering robust, reliable systems
	Specialists in understanding the political context within which security policy and its implementation is situated
	Specialists in understanding the design and implementation of security policy from the perspective of economics, including ideas and tools from areas such as utility theory, game theory, and portfolio theory.


	Learning Outcomes	Key knowledge and understanding:

             	Concepts and philosophy of security & privacy
               	Declarative and operational concepts
	The relationship between security & privacy
	Understanding relationships between people, policy, and systems


	Politics of security & privacy
               	The perspectives of individuals, companies, and governments
	International relations, strategy, cyber-conflict
	Understanding tensions in policy and legislation


	Economics of security & privacy
               	Utility, incentives, public goods, externalities and internalities, and trade-offs
	Games in security & privacy
	Using models to understand policy, technology, and decision-making.



 
Key skills:

             	Ability to develop conceptual analyses of systems and policies in socio-economic contexts
	Ability to assess the consequences and value of models of security & privacy
	Ability to organize and communicate complex ideas and arguments in precise, accessible written form.   



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
           Content

         
 
          
          
         The course covers in depth major issues in computer, information, and general security related to the following perspectives: 
 
         - Conceptual and philosophical foundations of security policy and its implementation in systems’ contexts 
 
         - The political context within which security policies and their implementations are situated, including national and international security issues and the relationships between individuals, companies, and governments 
 
         - The design and implementation of security policy from the perspective of economics, including ideas and tools from areas such as utility theory, game theory, and portfolio theory.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
           Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         One 2-hour lecture per week to be delivered by the lecturer(s), with occasional guest lecturers (e.g., from industry, government, security agencies) as appropriate. 
 
         Weekly tutorial hours, staffed by the lecturer and TAs, will support the material presented in the lectures in respect of the final examination and, specifically, will support the three coursework essays, the completion of which will require significant independent study.  
 
          Specific support with essay-writing will be provided for those students who need it.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessments:

         


          	Coursework (100%):

           	Essay 1 (25%) 
	Essay 2 (35%) 
	Essay 4 (40%)






         
         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain a mark of at least 50% for the module overall.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes provided in Moodle (Page ID = 28991).  
 
         Examples of slides and software used in past years: http://blog.bettercrypto.com/?page_id=1368 
 
         Reference books: 
Antoine Joux: Algorithmic Cryptanalysis, CRC Press
Menezes, van Oorschot, Vanstone: Handbook of Applied Cryptography, CRC Press. www.cacr.math.uwaterloo.ca/hac 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
