 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GF04 - Financial Market Modelling and Analysis 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGF04 - Financial Market Modelling and Analysis

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGF04
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	N/A
	Term	2
	Taught By	Chris Clack (100%)
	Aims	This module will introduce students to the field of modelling and analysing financial markets with emphasis on (i) the wide variety of deterministic and discrete-time methods that are available; and (ii) numerical simulation of the financial markets, including agent-based modeling.

	Learning Outcomes	The students will be able to distinguish between different types of modeling and analysis, and explain the advantages and disadvantages of each method; they will gain an understanding of discrete-time dynamic optimisation methods; they will gain an understanding of numerical simulation methods, including both agent-based techniques and the use of recurrence relations.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         1. Introduction to the Financial Markets    
Market Microstructure    
Order-driven and Quote-driven markets    
Orders, Quotes and Trades 
Post-trade processing
Regulation
Trading Strategies   
Risk Management 
 
         2. Markets
Auctions
Markets
Dealer Markets and Order-Book Markets
Market Making
Low latency and High Frequency Trading     
 
         3. Introduction to Techniques
Game Theory
Minority Games
Agent Based Models
Dynamic Optimisation 
 
         4. Specific models
Day & Juang - Bulls, Bears and Market Sheep
Lyons - The Foreign Exchange Hot Potato   
Huang et al - Optimal Market Making with Risk Aversion
Instability arising from coupled dealer algorithms 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment component: 
 
         	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 100%)

 
         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         A full list of resources will be available on the Moodle site for this module. 
 
         Web resources
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
