 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM050 - Advanced Topics in Machine Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM050 - Advanced Topics in Machine Learning

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

         	Code	COMPM050 (Also taught as: COMPGI13) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	The prerequisites are probability, calculus, linear algebra, COMPM055 Supervised Learning and COMPM056 Graphical Models. 

	Term	2
	Taught By	Thore Graepel & guest lecturers from Google DeepMind - Koray Kavukcuoglu, Hado van Hasselt, Joseph Modayil and Marie Mulville

	Aims	To learn the fundamentals of machine-learning based artificial intelligence: 1) to understand fundamentals and practice of deep learning, 2) to understand methods for reinforcement learning, planning and control in sequential decision making processes, 3) to learn how to implement algorithms in TensorFlow.
	Learning Outcomes	To gain in depth familiarity with the selected research topics, understand their theory and applications, be able to individually read, understand and discuss research papers in the field.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         

         
          

          


           	
	
	
	Introductions to deep learning, reinforcement learning, deep reinforcement learning, and TensorFlow.
	Basics of machine learning, including:

            	linear models
	least-squares regression
	maximum likelihood
	regularization & cross-validation
	classification
	logistic regression



	Deep learning, including:

            	neural networks and convolutional neural networks
	optimisation
	end-to-end learning
	recurrent networks
	generative models
	variational inference
	natural language processing



	Reinforcement learning, including

            	Markov decision processes
	dynamic programming
	model-free prediction and control
	value function approximation and policy gradients
	deep reinforcement learning
	integrating learning and planning
	exploration and exploitation






          
          

         

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Lectures, reading, presentation and associated class problems.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	    Written Examination (50%)
	    Coursework Section (50%)


         To pass this module, students must: 

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         	Reinforcement learning:


         R. Sutton and A. Barto, An Introduction to Reinforcement Learning 
 
          (http://webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/~sutton/book/ebook/thebook.html) 
 
         C. Szepesvari, Algorithms for Reinforcement Learning 
 
         (http://www.sztaki.hu/~szcsaba/papers/RLAlgsInMDPslecture.pdf)

         	Deep learning: 


         Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville, Deep Learning 
 
         (http://www.deeplearningbook.org/)

         	Tensorflow: 


         www.tensorflow.org
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
