 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 205P - Systems Engineering Project 2 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP205P - Systems Engineering Project 2

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	 Code	COMP205P 
	Year	2
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of COMP204P
	Term	2
	Taught By	Graham Roberts, Dean Mohamedally, TBA
	Aims	This module forms the second half of an extended group project that runs from October through to April. It continues directly on from COMP204P, with the goal of delivering a working proof of concept prototype.
The module is entirely group work based, building on the results obtained from COMP204P. It continues the theme of being a highly practical module, requiring extensive lab work and good group working skills. Groups typically take an iterative approach to develop their proof of concept design, while maintaining regular contact with their client. A particular emphasis is placed on testing of the prototype to demonstrate that it works according to the specification that has been developed and meets the client needs. The proof of concept prototype should have the potential to be developed into a design for a production version of the system.
There are two presentation sessions. In January groups give a one minute Elevator Pitch presentation, to define their project specification and goals. In April, the module finishes with a formal presentation and demonstration day, delivered to an invited audience of clients and industry representatives.

	Learning Outcomes	After completing the module attendees will be able to:
             	organise and manage a substantial development project.
	 understand the processes and life cycle stages needed to deliver a system.
	 effectively evaluate alternative design decisions.
	 apply sound engineering principles.
	 document and deliver a working proof of concept prototype.
	 define a testing strategy and test a system.
	 evaluate and assess the project work done and the group members.
	plan and deliver a high quality presentation, and give a demonstration of their prototype. 



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         • Group working
• Process management
• Elevator Pitch Presentation
• Selecting and using tools, libraries and frameworks
• Designing and building a proof of concept prototype
• Testing
• Formal presentation and demonstration of prototype

Coursework
The module includes a Scenario Week where students will work on Information Security.

Project work
The project work continues from the start of term in January and runs through to late April when the final submission is made. A project website is used to store all documentation, deliverables and other artefacts.

Group formation: Students remain in the same groups that were set up in COMP204P.

Group deliverables: Regularly bi-weekly progress reports, two formal review meetings and the final version of the project website with the specified content. Also an Elevator Pitch presentation and a final formal presentation with a prototype demonstration.

Individual deliverable: Each student is required to submit an individual report giving an evaluation of the project and an assessment of each group member including themselves. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Online material. Lab classes. Group project reviews and group working. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessment components: 

         	Coursework (100%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined.




         The coursework component is assessed as follows; 

         


          	Individual assessment of group work:

           	Individual report and contribution (35%);

 
 

	Group assessment of group work:

           	Elevator Pitch Presentation (5%);
	Scenario Week (15%);
	Group website (20%);
	Group Presentation and Demonstration (25%).






          
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         See the Moodle site. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
