 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› GA99 - Thesis 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGA99 - Thesis

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGA99 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of core and option modules within the MSc Information Security
	Term	3
	Taught By	Various supervisors (organiser = Jens Groth) (100%) 
	Aims	Students will get the experience of undertaking and completing a piece of research, applying techniques learned throughout the programme, including the technical skills of analysis, design and implementation 
	Learning Outcomes	Students will learn to: work individually developing a major project, plan and coordinate development activities, make realistic work commitments, present the research done effectively to a deadline 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         
Content
          
Students work individually or in groups on a research topic together with a supervisor. Frequently, the supervisor is one of UCL's lecturers on the MSc in Information Security, but students can also work with other academic staff at UCL or with an external supervisor from industry. The workload of the thesis corresponds to four modules.
          
The project runs from immediately after the examination period (May) with the students responsible for organising themselves and their work, with advice from their supervisor. Students are expected to meet with their supervisor on a regular basis, as agreed with the supervisor. The main report documents the results of the project. The deadline for submission is normally the last week of August. The dissertation text (defined as everything except title page, table of contents, references and appendices) should not exceed 50 pages in 12 point type and 1.5 or double spacing for an individual report. The total dissertation length (main text together with appendices) should under no circumstances exceed 100 pages for an individual report. For group projects, each extra group member increases the allowance by 30 pages in the main body, and 30 pages in the appendices.
         
         
Examples of recent project titles
Algebraic Attack On Smart Cards
          
Algebraic Cryptanalysis Of Ciphers
          
Anti-Phishing: Secure, Usable and Low Cost Authentication For Secure and Convenient Online Banking Security and Payment Systems
          
Comparing Authentication Methods
          
Computer Security By Strip Searching
          
Cryptanalysis Of Keeloq
          
Defence Against Profile Injection Attacks
          
Fuzzy Private Matching and Privacy Preserving
          
Implementing Default Capabilities To Fight Computer Malware
          
Integration Of Biometrics In Identity Management
          
Maliciously Created Routing Loops In Mobility Protocols
          
Mobile Phone Security
          
Model Checking Security Protocols
          
Modelling The Information Content Of Rumour Propagation
          
Perfectly Secure Communication Over General Adversary Structures In Arbitrary Networks With Feedback Channels
          
Privacy: Dataveillance As Differential Pricing and Social Sorting
          
Private Information Retrieval
          
Topological Characterisation of Email Communications
          
Trusted Computing
          
Verification of TESLA (or Variant Dining Cryptographers) Protocol Using MCMAS
         
         	
	
	

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Individual research, with support from the project supervisor
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessments:

         	Thesis (75%) (approx 550 work hours) 
	Viva (25%) (approx 50 work hours)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain a mark of at least 50% for the module overall.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Books, papers, manuals etc. relevant to the project.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
