 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› 6010 - Computer Music 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP6010 - Computer Music

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP6010 
	Year	2 or 3
	Prerequisites	The course has no formal prerequisites but involves programming in graphical and textual languages, and engagement with musical concepts. No prior knowledge of programming is assumed and the languages used are taught from first principles, however, those with no or very little  computing experience of any kind may find the learning curve quite steep! Thus some basic knowledge of programming in any language will be helpful. On the musical side, it will help if you have some basic knowledge of music but again, this can be learned from books and will be briefly taught on the course if needed.  Reviewing this page may give some idea of the knowledge required.  Prospective students are encouraged to contact the lecturer to discuss their suitability.
	Term	2
	Taught By	Nicolas Gold (100%) 
	Aims	To provide students with a grounding in the state of the art in computer music theory, technology and applications. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing this module should be able to: 

             	demonstrate knowledge of key issues in contemporary computer music.
	demonstrate a knowledge of ethical issues related to music intellectual property.
	analyse problems in computer music analysis, representation, and creation.
	synthesise solutions to such problems on the basis of contemporary tools and theories.
	evaluate such solutions using appropriate methods
	manage their own learning in terms of acquiring disciplinary knowledge from academic literature
	evaluate their own solutions
	work autonomously
	solve complex problems



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The course will cover three key aspects of computer music: representation, creativity and analysis addressed through theory and practice. It will cover sound, music as organised sound, and specific applications (e.g. music information retrieval and musicology). Students will be strongly encouraged to explore both scientific and artistic aspects of the course through programming exercises to generate sound and music in contemporary visual or textual music and arts programming languages (e.g. Python and Pure Data). 
 
         Indicative topics
Audio and Sampling
Synthesis
Introduction to Tonal Music Theory
Symbolic representations of music (MIDI, MusicXML)
Algorithmic Composition
Music Information Retrieval
Computational Musicology
Ethical Issues and Evaluation of Music Systems
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures, laboratories, and demonstrations of techniques. Students will be given weekly  exercises to explore and practice techniques. Reading and listening recommendations will also be provided via Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Unseen written examination (2 hours, 100%)


         To pass this module, students must:

         	 Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         http://readinglists.ucl.ac.uk/modules/comp6010.html
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
