 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GS11 - Research Seminar in Software Engineering 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGS11 - Research Seminar in Software Engineering

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGS11
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	A good standard of computer literacy is required as programming may be involved.
	Prerequisite for	COMPGS98 (Students wishing to take COMPGS98 Research Project in Software Engineering MUST choose GS11 as one of their options).
	Term	1
	Taught By	Earl Barr
	Aims	To introduce students to cutting-edge research methods in software engineering emphasising 1) the close reading of research papers 2) the critical, yet balanced, evaluation of research ideas, and 3) writing a research project proposal.
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should be able to:
 
             	carefully read, i.e. peruse, research papers and books, identifying and articulating their core ideas, contributions and techniques or, at least, clearly state what was confusing and why and what steps to take to reduce that confusion.
	identify research areas in software engineering, and discuss their seminal problems and solution techniques.
	find and formulate a good research problem (or question), then convincingly and effectively solve (or answer) it, either via validation or proof.
	conduct a literature search, avoiding the twin evils of shallowness and excessive depth.
	describe the principal sections of a research paper and their purpose.
	write a detailed research project proposal.
	facilitate a seminar-style discussion of a research paper.
	formulate, present and critique a research presentation, including an elevator pitch.
	understand how papers are reviewed and accepted at conferences and journals.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         This module will teach students how to conduct research in software engineering. It will introduce them to seminal papers and the cutting-edge research that UCL faculty are pursuing.  
 
         The module will begin by discussing what research is from the point of view of software engineering. It will discuss finding, evaluating and formulating research ideas. To this end, the bulk of term prior to reading week will focus on developing the skills and habits needed to closely read research papers. After reading week, students will apply those skills to reading papers selected by the members of the SSE faculty. 
 
         A detailed research report will be developed in stages as described in Assessment, below. The final report will include a clear problem statement and enumerate the problem's novelty and importance. If the work is very novel, the final report must include a detailed review of literature necessary to understand its importance; otherwise, it must include a detailed literature survey that positions the proposed work against related work. Finally, the research report must close with a careful, succinct discussion of the theoretical or experimental work to be done to prove or validate the work. 
 
         Students may work individually or in small groups. Individual projects are preferred; group projects will require justification and approval. Groups will be expected to do more work, commensurate with their size. 
 
         Students who perform well in this module may be invited to enrol in COMPGS98 Research Project in Software Engineering.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Seminar, lecture, and peer presentation and review. Students will read 4-5 papers each week; for each assigned paper, they must turn in a 1 page critique. Readings will be assigned and available via Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessment components: 

         	Project Presentation (70%)
	Coursework (30%)


         To pass this course, students must: 

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
         An important component of coursework is writing short, 1 page critiques of each reading. Each paper critique must be separately posted to Moodle at least one workday (minimally 24 hours) before the class in which the paper will be discussed and be visible to all enrolled students. The students will peer assess each other's critiques. This module has no exam. 

Further assessment details can be found from the course Moodle page.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         The exact readings will vary from year to year. Most will be electronic versions of papers made available via Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
