 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM092 - Advanced Deep learning and Reinforcement Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM092 - Advanced Deep learning and Reinforcement Learning

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM092 (Also taught as COMPGI22)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	N/A
	Term	1
	Taught By	Thore Graepel (100%) with guest lecturers from DeepMind
	Aims	To have a full understanding of the learning outcomes.
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should understand:

             	The basics of deep learning and reinforcement learning paradigms.
	Architectures and optimization methods for deep neural network training.
	How to implement deep learning methods within a given ML framework and apply them to data.
	The theoretical foundations and algorithms of reinforcement learning.
	How to apply reinforcement learning algorithms to environments with complex dynamics.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         
The course has two interleaved parts that converge towards the end of the course. One part is on machine learning with deep neural networks, the other part is about prediction and control using reinforcement learning. These two themes converge towards the end of the course, when we discuss deep reinforcement learning, where deep neural networks are trained as function approximators in a reinforcement learning setting.
 The deep learning stream of the course will cover a short introduction to neural networks and supervised learning, followed by lectures on convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, end-to-end and energy-based learning, optimization methods, attention and memory. Possible applications areas to be discussed include object recognition and natural language processing.
 The reinforcement learning stream will cover Markov decision processes, planning by dynamic programming, model-free prediction and control, value function approximation, policy gradient methods, integration of learning and planning, the exploration/exploitation dilemma. Possible applications to be discussed include learning to play classic board games as well as video games.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         4 hours of Lectures per week.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 50%)
	Coursework (50%) [comprises 3 assignments of 10%, 20% and 20%]


         To pass this course, students must: 

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Reinforcement Learning 
 
         R. Sutton and A. Barto, An Introduction to Reinforcement Learning 
 
         (http://incompleteideas.net/sutton/book/the-book.html) 
 
         C. Szepesvari, Algorithms for Reinforcement Learning 
 
         (https://sites.ualberta.ca/~szepesva/RLBook.html) 
 
         Deep Learning 
 
         Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville, Deep Learning 
 
         (http://www.deeplearningbook.org/) 
 
          Tensorflow: Documentation at  www.tensorflow.org
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
