 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMP3058 - Artificial Intelligence and Neural Computing 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3058 - Artificial Intelligence and Neural Computing

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	 COMP3058 (Also taught as: COMPGC26) 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of the Computer Science programme or a strong background in university-level maths (in particular logic) 
	Term	2
	Taught By	Denise Gorse (50%) 
Anthony Hunter (50%) 
	Aims	 This course introduces artificial intelligence and neural computing as both technical subjects and as fields of intellectual activity. The overall targets are: (1) to present basic methods of expressing knowledge in forms suitable for holding in computing systems, together with methods for deriving consequences from that knowledge by automated reasoning; (2) to present basic methods for learning knowledge; and (3) to introduce neural computing as an alternative knowledge acquisition/representation paradigm, to explain its basic principles and their relationship to neurobiological models, to describe a range of neural computing techniques and their application areas. 
	Learning Outcomes	 Ability to identify problems that can be expressed in terms of search problems or logic problems, and translate them into the appropriate form, and know how they could be addressed using an algorithmic approach. Ability to identify problems that can be expressed in terms of neural networks, and to select an appropriate learning methodology for the problem area. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         
Scope of the Subject
Nature and goals of AI.
          
Application areas.
          

          

          Searching state-spaces
Use of states and transitions to model problems.
          
Breadth-first, depth-first and related types of search.
          
A* search algorithm.
          
Use of heuristics in search.
          

          

          Reasoning in logic
Brief revision of propositional and predicate logic.
          
Different characterisations of reasoning.
          
Generalized modus ponens.
          
Resolution.
          
Forward and backward chaining.
          

          

          Knowledge Representation
          
Diversity of knowledge.
          
Inheritance hierarchies.
          
Semantic networks.
          
Knowledgebase ontologies.
          

          

          Handling uncertainty
          
Diversity of uncertainty.
          
Inconsistency.
          
Dempster-Shafer theory. 
          

          

          Machine Learning
          
Induction of knowledge.
          
Decision tree learning algorithms. 
          

          

          Intelligent agents
          
An architecture for intelligent agents.
          
Argumentation.
          
Decision-making. 
          

          

          Nature and Goals of Neural Computing
          
Comparison with rule-based AI.
          
Overview of network architectures and learning paradigms. 
          

          

          Binary Decision Neurons
          
The McCullough-Pitts model.
          
Single-layer perceptrons and their limitations. 
          

          

          The Multilayer Perceptron
          
The sigmoid output function.
          
Hidden units and feature detectors.
          
Training by error backpropagation.
          
The error surface and local minima.
          
Generalisation, how to avoid 'overtraining'. 
          

          

          The Hopfield Model
          
Content addressable memories and attractor nets.
          
Hopfield energy function.
          
Setting the weights.
          
Storage capacity. 
          

          

          Self-Organising Nets
          
Topographic maps in the brain.
          
The Kohonen self-organising feature map.
          
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 90%);
	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 10%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Artificial Intelligence - A Modern Approach; First Edition; Prentice Hall; ISBN: 0-13-103805-2
 
         

         (Background reading) Neural Computing: An Introduction; R Beale and T Jackson; 
 
          Institute of Physics Publishing; ISBN: 0-85-274262-2 
 
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
