 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional)
      ›› COMPGV ›› COMPGV19 - Numerical Optimisation 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGV19 - Numerical Optimisation

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGV19
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	2
	Taught By	Marta Betcke
	Aims	To provide the students with an overview of the optimization landscape and a practical understanding of most popular optimization techniques and an ability to apply these methods to problems they encounter in their studies e.g. MSc project/dissertation and later in their professional career.
	Learning Outcomes	
             	Practical understanding of a comprehensive set of optimization techniques and their range of applicability.
	Ability to implement mathematical methods.
	Ability to apply these techniques to problems they encounter in their studies e.g. MSc project/dissertation and later in their professional carrier.
	Ability to critically evaluate the results, which the methods produced for a given problem. 



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         This module teaches a comprehensive range of state of the art numerical optimization techniques. It covers a number of approaches to unconstrained and constrained problems, methods for smooth and non-smooth convex problems as well as basics of non-convex optimisation. 
 
         This module is a core module in MSc in Scientific Computing. 
 
         Syllabus:

         	Mathematical formulation and types of optimisation problems
	Unconstrained optimization theory e.g.: local minima, first and second order conditions
	Unconstrained optimization methods e.g.: line-search, trust region, conjugate gradient, Newton, Quasi-Newton, inexact Newton
	Smooth convex optimization: first order methods e.g. gradient descent, Nesterov, second order methods e.g. Newton
	Least Squares problems
	Constrained optimization theory e.g.: local and global solutions, first order optimality, second order optimality, constraints qualification, equality and inequality constraints, duality, KKT conditions
	Constrained optimization methods e.g.: linear programming, quadratic programming, penalty, barrier and augmented Lagrangian methods, least squares with smooth and non-smooth regularization, nonlinear problems e.g. sequential quadratic programming
	Non-smooth optimization e.g: subgradient calculus, subgradient methods, proximal ?operator, operator splitting, ADMM, non-smooth penalties e.g. L1 or TV.?

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Weekly three hour lecture accompanied by a one hour practical tutorial, where the students get to implement (whenever practicable) and test performance of the methods taught in the lectures.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework 1 (20%)
	Coursework 2 (20%)
	Project (60%)

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         	Numerical Optimization, Jorge Nocedal and Stephen J. Wright, 2nd edition, Springer
	Primal-Dual Interior-Point Methods, Stephen J. Wright, SIAM
	Convex Optimization, Stephen Boyd and Lieven Vandenberghe, Cambridge University Press

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
