 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GI08 - Graphical Models 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGI08 - Graphical Models

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	 COMPGI08 (Also taught as: COMPM056 Graphical Models) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	
	Term	1
	Taught By	David Barber (100%) 
	Aims	The module provides an entry into probabilistic modeling and reasoning, primarily of discrete variable systems. Very little continuous variable calculus is required, and students more familiar with discrete mathematics should find the course digestible. The emphasis is to demonstrate the potential applications of the techniques in plausible real-world scenarios related to information retrieval and analysis. Concrete challenges include questionnaire analysis, low-density parity check error correction, and collaborative filtering of Netflix data. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students will learn the basics of discrete graphical models, in particular inference algorithms in both singly and multiply connected structures. To cement understanding, the students must demonstrate their acquired skills by attacking several real-world challenges using the techniques acquired. The course should inspire and motivate students to the real-world applications of the theories and provide a strong enough platform for studies of more complex real-valued models. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction
Review of probability theory and motivations for dealing with uncertainty reasoning. Bayesian Reasoning and probability. 
 
         Graphical Models Belief Networks
A more formal and general specification of directed and undirected models, their semantics, independence statements. 
 
         The Junction Tree Algorithm
Exact inference in discrete singly-connected graphs (Belief Propagation). Derivation of inference in multiply-connected graphs. 
 
         Learning
Using data to learn the tables in discrete graphs using maximum likelihood. Examples including diagnostic systems. Expectation-Maximisation Algorithm. 
 
         Common Models in Machine Learning and Applications
Models related to data clustering, analysis and visualization. Mixtures of Bernoulli distributions for Questionnaire Analysis. Hidden Markov Models and applications in sequence clustering and analysis.Low-density Parity Check error correction as an example of Belief propagation.Latent Semantic Analysis (PLSA) and Information Retrieval. Applications to web link analysis.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 50%)
	Coursework (50%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 50% in each component.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         D.J.C. MacKay: Information Theory, Inference and Learning Algorithms. Cambridge University Press 
 
         Christopher M. Bishop: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning. Springer (2006) 
 
         D. Barber: Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning 
 
         

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
