 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
          
          Google announces PhD Fellows at UCL 
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           Google created their PhD Fellowship Program in 2009 to recognize and support outstanding graduate students doing exceptional research in Computer Science and related disciplines.
 
           Now in its eighth year, the fellowship program has supported hundreds of future faculty, industry researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs.
 
           UCL is pleased to announce two recipients:
 
           Jamie Hayes (Machine Learning)
 
           Tim Rocktaschel (Natural Language Processing)
 
           Reflecting the continuing commitment to supporting and building relationships with the academic community, Google has announced 33 recipients in all from North ... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          UCL authors pen Research in the Wild 
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           A new E-book authored by UCL's Yvonne Rogers, Professor of Interaction Design and Director of UCL Interaction Centre (UCLIC), and and Paul Marshall, Senior Lecturer, has been published which examines new directions for Human Computer Interaction (HCI) in the recent resurgence of "in-the-wild" research studies.
 
           Research in the Wild can be found at  
 
           http://www.morganclaypoolpublishers.com/catalog_Orig/product_info.php?products_id=1053 
 
           UCL students and staff can access a pdf copy via UCL library. A description is below: 
 
           The phrase "in-the-wild" is becoming popular again in the field of human-c... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          UCL recognised as Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           The government’s National Cyber Security Centre and the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council recognise UCL and 13 other universities in the UK as Academic Centres of Excellence in Cyber Security Research.
 
           We are delighted to accept this recognition of our world leading expertise in cyber security, which covers a broad range of areas from securing financial transactions, avoiding bugs in software, cryptography and cryptanalysis to privacy enhancing technologies, preventing cybercrime, and human, economic and organisational aspects of security.
 
           UCL was among the first eight univers... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          Collaborating AI learns to play StarCraft
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           Previously, single AI agents learned to play Go and card games, beating the most accomplished human players, but in this study, multiple AI agents have learned to collaborate to defeat multiple enemies in a real-time strategy game.
 
           The discovery, published as a pre-print on arXiv, provides valuable insights into the way AI agents learn how to communicate and coordinate effectively. This could help scientists develop the next generation of AI for use in large-scale, real-world applications, advancing the AI currently used for gaming on the stock markets, predicting user interests and as competi... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          EPSRC funds Blockchain technology for Algorithmic Regulation And Compliance project
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           Seven new projects will explore the potentially transformative opportunities offered by Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) in fields such as energy, healthcare and policy-making.
 
           One of which is led by Tomaso Aste, Professor of Complexity Science and Head Financial Computing & Analytics Group, and will look into how Distributed Ledger Technology can overturn current regulation and compliance models, opening the way for more effective regulation in the services industry.
 
           The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) has supported the projects with more than £3.6 million of inv... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          UCL send the youngest team to Google Hashcode Finals
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           Google Hashcode is the largest team-based algorithmic competition organised by Google. This year, the participants coming from all over the world, had to optimise the placement of WI-FI routers in a building in order to get the most coverage with minimal costs.
 
           This year, a UCL team consisting of first-year students Andrei Margeloiu, Wojciech Golaszewski and Cosmin Vladianu (pictured), made up thee youngest team to participate in the 2017 World Finals organised in Paris.
 
           The scores were very tight and they got 540 million points while the winning team got 548 million points (just 1.5% differen... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          UCL monitors gas emissions at active volcanoes
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           A UCL team of Dr Christopher Kilburn (UCL Earth Sciences), Prof Steve Hailes (UCL Computer Science) and Lara Smale (PhD UCL Earth Sciences), in partnership with the INGV-Vesuvius Observatory, conducted successful tests of prototype, low-cost sensors for monitoring gas emissions at active volcanoes.
 
           Together they deployed the sensors at the Campi Flegrei volcano, which is currently in unrest on the western edge of Naples in southern Italy. The tests confirmed that the recording capability of the sensors is comparable with that of conventional sensors that are several times more expensive. 
 
           High... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          UCL part of national consortium awarded £3 million by EPSRC
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           A consortium of eight UK universities, led by the University of Oxford, has been awarded £3 million by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) to establish a national high-performance computing facility to support machine learning.
 
           The new facility, known as the Joint Academic Data Science Endeavour (JADE), forms part of a combined investment of £20m by EPSRC in the UK’s regional Tier 2 high-performance computing facilities, which aim to bridge the gap between institutional and national resources.
 
           JADE, which will be the largest Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) facility in... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          Alexandra Silva wins EATCS Presburger Award 2017 
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           The 2017 Presburger Committee consisting of Marta Kwiatkowska (chair), Stephan Kreutzer and Jukka Suomela has completed its deliberations and unanimously selected Dr Alexandra Silva, Senior Lecturer at UCL Computer Science, as recipient of the 2017 EATCS Presburger Award (European Association for Theoretical Computer Science) for young scientists.
 
           Alexandra Silva has been instrumental in fostering the field of coalgebraic modelling and reasoning. In her groundbreaking thesis in 2010, she developed Kleene coalgebra, showing how automata and their extensions can be naturally embedded within a co... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
          
          UCL Data Science Student Challenge: round 2.0
 
          
           
            
           
 
          
           Microsoft’s global series of data science hackathons made its second stop in the UK, at UCL last weekend (Saturday 11-Sunday 12 March 2017). Over 170 students from across the country joined us on Saturday at the Bloomsbury campus to take part in the 21-hour long challenge.
 
           The hackathon was themed around the development of innovative data science solutions with large financial data-sets in order to give Bloomberg a competitive advantage in the finance industry, while demonstrating use of Microsoft’s Cortana Intelligence Suite. Students had the opportunity to work on deep learning, text-mining ... [more]

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
          
           Displaying results 1 to 10 out of 28
          

          
           << First 
           < Previous 
           1-10 
           11-20 
           21-28 
           Next > 
           Last >>
          

         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
