 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› GS99 - Group Project in Software Engineering 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGS99 - Group Project in Software Engineering

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGS99 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Completion of taught modules of the MSc SSE.
	Term	3
	Taught By	Various academic staff supervisors (coordinated by Dean Mohamedally) (100%) 
	Aims	The module gives students experience in undertaking and completing a large project in software systems engineering encompassing the full software development lifecycle, applying techniques learned throughout the programme, including the technical skills of analysis, design and implementation. 
	Learning Outcomes	Upon successful completion of the module, students will have deeper knowledge and understanding of the following, gained through first-hand experience applying the concepts of the taught element of the programme: the nature of large, complex software systems and how that nature varies according to the context in which a system is situated; the lifecycle of software systems engineering, its different phases, the relationships and dependencies between phases, and the problems, issues, techniques, mechanisms and solutions that are relevant to each phase; the state-of-the practice in software systems engineering as well as the most significant trends, problems and results in the study of complex software systems; capturing and articulating requirements for a software system in consultation with appropriate stakeholders; constructing informal, semi-formal and formal models of the structure, static relationships, and dynamic behaviour of a software system at different levels of abstraction and suitable for different phases of the software lifecycle; manual and automated techniques for analyzing and testing the properties of a software model; manual and automated techniques for identifying inconsistencies between software models expressed at different levels of abstraction; applying tools and environments to the construction of software models; management of software systems engineering projects, the processes defined to guide such projects, and the metrics used to measure the progress of such projects; the most important formal and de facto standards for software systems engineering, including important modelling notations, component models, middleware, tools and environments; and the advantages and disadvantages of the approaches to software systems engineering learned in the programme. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Overview
There is no set syllabus. Groups of students identify their chosen project area in conjunction with a supervisor who is a member of the academic staff. The supervisor provides support and guidance. The project runs full-time from June onwards, with the students responsible for organising themselves and their work with advice from their supervisor. Students are expected to meet with their supervisor on a regular basis, as agreed with the supervisor.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Working in teams under guidance from a project supervisor.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Individual Reports (40%)
	Group Project Report (40%)
	Oral examination (20%, 1 hour) 


         To pass this course, students must:  

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined. 


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Books, papers, manuals, etc. relevant to the project.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
