 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM041 - Web Economics 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM041 - Web Economics

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM041 (Also taught as: COMPGW02)
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	Normally offered only to students in computer science related programmes because basic programming skills are required.
	Term	2
	Taught By	Emine Yilmaz (50%) Jun Wang (50%)
	Aims	The course is intended to provide an introduction of the computing systems and their economics for the production, distribution, and consumption of (digital) goods and services over the Internet and web. While the basic economic principles are covered to understand the business aspects of web-based services, the course is primarily focused on the computational and statistical methods for implementing, improving and optimizing the internet-based businesses, including algorithmic mechanism design, online auctions, user behavior targeting, yield management, dynamic pricing, cloud-sourcing, social media mining and attention economics. Practical applications such as Google’s online advertising, Ebay’s online auction, and Amazon’s cloud computing will also be covered and discussed.
	Learning Outcomes	The students are expected to master both the theoretical and practical aspects of web economics. More specifically, the student will: 
             	understand basic economic principles and computational methods for the production, distribution, and consumptions of digital goods and services online.
	understand the computational methods/models to manage and optimize the Internet-based businesses.
	understand the challenges and techniques for the emerging topics such as computing as service and attention economics.
	 be able to formulate research questions that are relevant to internet-based businesses and use the tools of economics and computational techniques to provide answers to them, and, 
	be familiar with important work in the field.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         System design 

         


          	Web basics: HTTP, HTML5 referrer, Link and Click-through analysis, etc 
	Basic Economic Principles and Economic analysis: 

           	Micro vs. Macro economics 
	Basic elements of Supply and Demand 
	Equilibrium 



	Incentives: Game theory, and Auction theory 
	Business Models in the Internet:

           	 auction and bidding (the Ebay Model, swoopo, and b2c and b2b auctions (alibaba) 
	Subscription (Compulsory license, dropbox premier model, spotify, apple icloud, pay per use). 
	Online retailing (Amazon, Apple Apps). 
	digital goods & bundling 



	Computational advertising 

           	Vickrey auction and the second price auction 
	Search-based advertising, Contextual advertising and Behaviour targeting, Demand-side platform and Real-time bidding, Ad exchange and futures and options 



	Digital Right Management, Spam/fraud control and Internet radio 
	Computing as a service/utility 
	Social media mining 



         
         Management and optimization  

         	Dynamical pricing models (air-tickets) and Yield management and scheduling (online advertising) 
	Search engine optimization 


         People 

         


          	Attention economics and Personalization and Long tail 
	Prediction market and its accuracy 
	Human computing and Social computing systems 

           	Crowdsourcing and Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) and Collective intelligence 
	System design (ESP game, reCAPTCHA etc) 
	Bittorrent and Peer-to-peer file sharing






          
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Delivery

         
 
          
          
         Lectures.  
 
         A website or/and moodle webpage will be created for the course and the course materials such as lecture notes, sample codes, will be shared. By using moodle, students will also be able to discuss relevant ideas and have questions answered by the lecturer. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessment components: 
 
         	Written examination 2.5 hours (70%)
	Coursework (30%)

 
         To pass this module, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         [1]   Noam Nisan (Editor), Tim Roughgarden (Editor), Eva Tardos (Editor), Vijay V. Vazirani (Editor),  Algorithmic Game Theory, Cambridge University, 2007. 
 
         [2]     David Easley and Jon Kleinberg, Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly Connected World, Cambridge University Press, 2010 
 
         [3]   R. Preston McAfee, Introduction to Economic Analysis www.mcafee.cc/Introecon/IEA.pdf 
 
         [4]   Nir Vulkan, The Economics of e-Commerce, Princeton University Press, 2003 
 
         [5]   Carl Shapiro, Hal R. Varian, Information rules: a strategic guide to the network economy, 1999 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
