 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM090 - Applied Machine Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM090 - Applied Machine Learning

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM090 (also taught as COMPGI09)
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	
	Term	2
	Taught By	David Barber (100%) 
	Aims	Applied Machine Learning aims to cover some of the issues that may arise in the practical application of machine learning in real-world problems. In addition, the course will cover some of the mathematics and techniques behind basic data analysis methods for both static and time-series data.

	Learning Outcomes	The ability to: assess the effectiveness of solutions presented and to question them in an intelligent way; synthesise solutions to general open-ended problems covering material from the whole programme, tempered with information on commercial reality obtained from this course. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Multivariate optimisation methods including line search, conjugate gradients and Newton's method, stochastic gradient descent, distributed optimisation. 
 
         Neural Nets and deep learning, fast nearest neighbour methods, large scale linear learning. 
 
         PCA, Canonical Correlation Analysis, matrix factorisation methods. 
 
         Gaussian Mixture Models Gaussian Process Regression/Classification 
 
         HMMs, AR models.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class problems.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 50%)
	Coursework Section. The coursework is based on assessed practical challenges hosted by Kaggle (50%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 50% in each component.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         To be notified as the course progresses, according to the business themes covered.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
