 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM068 - Cryptanalysis 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM068 - Cryptanalysis

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM068 (Also taught as COMPGA18)
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	Introduction to Cryptography COMPGA03
	Term	2
	Taught By	Nicolas Courtois and Christophe Petit
	Aims	Study of major topics in cryptanalysis. Showing a variety of ways to break, fix/repair and to measure/evaluate the security of cryptographic primitives. Understanding the maths, the security design principles, the internal structure and important properties of major cryptosystems. Study of major computational hard problems in cryptography (symmetric and public key). Step by step analysis of mathematical/algebraic/statistical attacks, methods and algorithms in cryptanalysis. 

	Learning Outcomes	Knowledge and understanding of how current cryptographic security technologies are built with individual components and their interaction, how they are (sometimes) defeated and how they can be designed or enhanced to be more robust. Understanding security goals, attacks and defences and other requirements in cryptographic systems. Understanding different types of attacks (e.g. key recovery vs. decryption). Learning how to evaluate the practical feasibility of attacks in terms of time, memory, pre-computation, data and the protocol / context in which they can be executed. 
Understanding the role of keyed operations, non-linearity, randomness, one-wayness, diffusion, side-channel vulnerabilities, permutations, security reductions, etc in the design of cryptographic protections. Discovering with software of key properties which are relevant to their security. Learning how to use standard crypto libraries, computer algebra software and software cryptanalysis tools. Learning how cryptosystems fail (theory/practice). 


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Historical cryptanalysis. LFSR-based stream ciphers. Modern block ciphers(DES/AES/other). Differential cryptanalysis, linear cryptanalysis, algebraic cryptanalysis in block and stream ciphers. Self-similarity attacks. Groups, finite fields. Number theory. Attacks on public key cryptosystems. RSA, factoring, discrete logarithms, elliptic curves, lattice attacks. Cryptographic explorations with software. Protocol/mode/initialization attacks. Side channel attacks. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Tutor-led class sessions, problem-solving, student projects with programming, participation in code-breaking competitions, private study. Concepts will be illustrated by practical computations with software and computer explorations.  
 
         Students will execute individual small projects in which they will focus on study/analysis/discovery/implementation of particular cryptanalytic attacks.  
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         There is NO written examination.  The course has the following assessment components:  
 
         One Individual Exploratory Programming Project (50%)  
 
         and  
 
         One Participation in a Code Breaking Competition (Jan-May 50%).  
 
         The competition will be similar yet different than last years competition: https://www.benthamsgaze.org/2015/06/24/ucl-code-breaking-competition/ 
 
         In code breaking competitions students will be assessed on:  
 
         1) their engagement, participation, team spirit, intellectual attitude and curiosity,  
 
         2) mastery of underlying mathematical/algorithmic concepts and operational tools and techniques, and  
 
         3) scientific and practical achievements, exploration visualisation and exploitation of data and results.  
 
         To pass this course, students must:  
 
         Submit both the programming project and participate in the competition, and 
 
         	Obtain an overall combined mark of 50% for both components.
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes provided Moodle (Page ID = 28993) 
 
         Examples of slides and software used in past years: http://blog.bettercrypto.com/?page_id=1368 
 
         Refrence books:  
 
         Antoine Joux: Algorithmic Cryptanalysis, CRC Press  
 
         Menezes, van Oorschot, Vanstone: Handbook of Applied Cryptography, CRC Press. www.cacr.math.uwaterloo.ca/hac&nbsp; 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
