 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMP3012 - Interaction Design 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3012 - Interaction Design

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3012 (also taught as COMPGC25)
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of the BSc/MEng Computer Science programme or the BSc Information Management programme
	Term	2
	Taught by	Dr Chris Evans
	Aims	 The module covers advanced topics in interaction design, informed by current research topics in human-computer interaction and interaction design. A central theme is how to design technologies to meet people’s needs. 
 
	Learning Outcomes	
             	Knowledge and understanding of research topics in interaction design
	Knowledge and understanding of methods used in interaction design
	The ability to reflect critically on the appropriateness of different interaction design methods
	The ability to conduct basic user research
	The ability to design, prototype and evaluate a novel ubiquitous computing technology
	Transferable skills: Information gathering and organising skills. Argumentation skills and the ability to synthesis information from multiple sources. Written presentation skills.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The module is separated into three related streams: 
 
         • Methods (Ten hours)
This series of lectures will introduce students to core interaction design methods, including approaches to conducting user research and designing, prototyping and evaluating user centred systems and technologies. 
 
          • Application (Ten hours)
These more practical sessions will give students an opportunity to reflect on how to put interaction design methods into practice and to discuss ideas and issues with each other and with the teaching faculty. They will link closely to the coursework 
 
          • Topics (Ten hours)
This series of lectures will introduce students to current and key historical work in interaction design. Focus will be on approaches to understanding the domains where these technologies are used, prototyping and approaches to evaluation.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         The module will combine conventional face-to-face lectures with the use of learning technologies, practical sessions, computer laboratories and social media.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 

         	Series of fortnightly short multiple-choice tests (50%);
	Coursework (50%). 


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ? 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
         The coursework is due in the first week of term 3. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
