 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GA11 - Research in Information Security 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGA11 - Research in Information Security

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGA11 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	2
	Taught By	Steven Murdoch (100%) 
	Aims	To develop an understanding of what research in information security is about, how to identify a contribution, what the quality standards in scientific publications are, and to study selected technical sub-topics in depth.
	Learning Outcomes	Students will be exposed to research on information security, by reading quality technical research papers in information security.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Students attend lectures and read scientific papers within an area of information security. The students will present a scientific paper in class, write two short reviews of papers presented in class, and write one detailed report about one paper in particular.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and directed study on information security literature
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessments:

         	Oral presentation in class (20%) 
	Coursework (20%)
	Report (60%)


         To pass this module, students must:

         	Obtain a mark of at least 50% for the module overall.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Original scientific literature from proceedings or journals.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
