 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus Index (2015-2016) ›› 3001 - Technology Management and Professional Issues 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3001 - Technology Management and Professional Issues

       This database contains 2015-16 versions of the syllabuses. For current versions please see here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3001
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	
	Term	1
	Taught By	Graham Collins (Dept. of Management Science) (33%)
Hugh Varilly (Computer Science) and occasional guest lecturers (66%).

	Aims	To develop an understanding of the issues that impinge on the management of computer technology systems and organisations, to provide an overview of the professional and ethical issues arising in the use, implementation, operation and monitoring of such systems and organisations, and the key management skills required in their effective utilisation and operation. To gain knowledge of a range of more advanced software and systems engineering concepts needed to effectively develop, implement and manage larger software systems.
	Learning Outcome	 A sensitive appreciation of the key professional, ethical and management issues. The ability to access the appropriate technical, legal, professional, business and management literature. A broader knowledge of software engineering principles and strategies, and how they can be applied to design, implement, operate and maintain enterprise class systems. An appreciation of how innovation is fostered and managed in large enterprises, small and medium enterprises and in start-ups.
 In addition for the project management component, students should be more able to effectively contribute in teams to deliver projects using work practices that are used in innovative digital enterprises. Students should also be able to incorporate adaptive methods, reflective practices and process improvement.
 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction to Technological Systems and Organisations (HV)
Organisational Structures.
Technical Leadership.
Time Management.
Technology Risk.
Release and Implementation Management.
Innovation Management.

Characteristics of Systems and Organisations (HV)
Design for Effective Implementation and Running.
Design for Performance and Availability.
Managing Systems during and after Deployment.
Small and Medium Enterprises. 
 
         Professional Issues (HV)
Professional Bodies.
Membership and Accreditation.

Legal Issues (HV)
Intellectual Property Protection.
Security and Risk.

Ethical Issues (HV)
Professional Codes.
Individual, Professional, Contractual, and Societal Responsibilities.

Consulting Methods (HV)
Issue Based Consulting.
Root Cause Analysis.
Common Technical Risks in Software Engineering Projects.

Applying Software Engineering (GC)
Software Architecture.
Agile Development.
Process improvement.

Project Management (GC)
Project Proposal.
Project Initiation.
Opportunity and Risk Management.

Skills of a Project Manager (GC)
Stakeholder Interaction.
Teamwork.
Leadership.

Resource Planning (GC)
Planning.
Estimating and Scheduling.
Sustainable delivery and Green IT.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures, tutorials and readings supported by three assessed coursework assignments 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (80%)
	Project (20%) 


         To pass this course, students must: 

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined; 
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole. 


         
The Coursework component is assessed as follows:

         	Project based Coursework (40%) – this will be a project carried out in groups of six to eight students. Students will be asked to develop a project management plan for a project, track and report its progress through planning and execution. The project will be kicked off on Tuesday October 6 with the final coursework to be handed in on Friday December 11
	Report based Coursework 1 (20%) – this will be individual coursework to be handed out on Friday 9 October and handed in, through Moodle, on Wednesday 18 November
	Report based Coursework 2 (20%) – this will be individual coursework to be handed out on Friday 16 October and handed in, through Moodle, on Thursday December 17 


         The Project component is assessed as follows:

         	Change the World project (20%) - already completed at the end of second year, this project will count towards the overall COMP3001 mark

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Recommended reading for topics taught by Hugh Varilly 
 
         Rich Schiesser - IT Systems Management Second Edition, Prentice-Hall, 2012 This book covers the main processes and practices for successfully managing systems once they are deployed into production. 
 
         Frank Bott, Professional Issues in Information Technology, Second Edition, BCS, 2014 
 
         John M Smith, Troubled IT Projects prevention and turnaround, Institution of Electrical Engineers, 2001. The author sets out the 40 root causes of troubled IT projects and explains how these can be avoided at each stage of the project life cycle. A very readable book. 
 
         Kord Davis, Ethics of Big Data: Balancing Risk and Innovation, O’Reilly, 2012 
 
         Eric Reis, The Lean Startup, Penguin, 2011. Describes an effective, and very popular, approach to start-up innovation 
 
         Andrew Keen, The Internet is Not The Answer, Atlantic Books, 2015. Offers a sceptical analysis of the full impact of digital technology 
 
         Further background reading for specific topics 
 
         Michael Nygard,  Release It! Design & Deploy Production-Ready Software, Pragmatic Bookshelf, 2007. This book makes developers aware of the harsh realities that affect applications once deployed into the real, messy, world. Illustrated with any real life examples, this book shows how to architect and design applications to cope with demanding production conditions. 
 
         McDermott, Mikulak and Bauregard, The Basics of FMEA, CRC Press, 2008. This is a short and readable introduction to Failure Mode Effect Analysis 
 
         Dean L Gano, Apollo Root Cause Analysis, Apollonian Publications, 2003. This book presents a systematic method of problem solving based on the cause and effect principle. 
 
         David Allen, Getting Things Done, Piatkus, 2001 This is one of the leading books on time management and the David Allen method will be taught in the module 
 
         Martin Fowler, Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture, Addison Wesley, 2003 
 
         Osterwalder and Pinguer, Business Model Generation, Wiley, 2010 
 
         Sidney Dekker, The Field Guide to Understanding Human Error, Ashgate, 2006 
 
         Jain, The Art of Computer Systems Performance Analysis, Wiley, 1991 
 
         Richard D Lewis, When Cultures Collide, Nicholas Brealey Publishing, 2006 
 
         Briggs Myers & Myers, Gifts Differing: Understanding Personality Type, Davies-Black Publishing, 1980 
 
         Recommended reading for topics taught by Graham Collins 
 
         Eric Schmidt & Jonathan Rosenberg with Alan Eagle, How Google Works, John Murray, 2014. Insights and rules for “smart creatives” to enhance decision-making, teamwork and innovation. 
 
         Albert Lester, Project Management, Planning and Control: Managing Engineering, Construction and Manufacturing Projects to PMI, APM and BSI Standards, 6th Edition, Elsevier, 2013. “Covering the principles and techniques you need to successfully manage an engineering or technical project from start to finish.” Elsevier. The section Agile Project Management, by Graham Collins, will be provided within the course notes. 
 
         Chris Chapman and Stephen Ward, How to Manage Project Opportunity and Risk: Why Uncertainty Management can be a much better approach than risk Management (updated 3rd Edition of Project Risk Management) Wiley, 2011. Comprehensive coverage of managing project and programme risk, highlighting that the process itself needs to be reviewed at each stage as well as the risks. 
 
         Mike Cohn, Succeeding with Scrum, Addison-Wesley, 2010. Detailed guidelines using the development method Scrum and ensuring the appropriate project roles and processes are interpreted to facilitate effective teamwork. 
 
         Further background reading for specific topics 
 
         Len Bass, Paul Clements and Rick Kazman, Software Architecture in practice, 2nd Edition, SEI Series in Software Engineering, Addison-Wesley, 2003 – Comprehensive coverage of concepts such as architecture views. 
 
         Fredrick P. Brooks, The Mythical Man Month, Anniversary Edition, Addison-Wesley, 1995 - A seminal book covering concepts that are valid today as when the book was originally written. 
 
         Ken Collier, Agile Analytics: A Value-Driven Approach to Business Intelligence and Data Warehousing, Addison-Wesley, 2012. 
 
         Bernard Marr, Key Performance Indicators: The 75 measures every manager should know, FT Publishing an imprint of Pearson 2012 
 
         Alan Shalloway, Scott Bain, Ken Pugh and Amir Kolsky, Essential Skills for the Agile Developer, Addison-Wesley, 2012 
 
         There will be additional resources - short videos, blogs, recent research papers, business articles and conference materials outlined within the course notes stored in Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
