 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Computer Science staff & students featured in Women in STEM documentary
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Engineering academics, researchers and students are featured in the documentary supported by The Manufacturers’ Organisation EEF and led by photographer, Stephanie Smith. “Women in STEM: The New Generation of Engineers” is a project about women in the manufacturing and engineering industries featuring them at different stages of their career, research and studies; as well as their personal pathways into STEM careers. The project looks at photographing women at all stages from apprentices and students right through to line managers and CEOs - to show to girls and young women the diversity of STEM roles that are accessible in this field. The following engineers were featured in the project:
 
          
 
          
 
         Dr. Ellie Cosgrave 
 
         Research Associate ‘Livable Cities’ Project at UCL STEaPP and Director of ScienceGrrl. Ellie is looking at how to radically transform the engineering of cities for a livable future. How does the way we design and engineer spaces effect peoples happiness and their sense of connection to one another. 
 
          
 
         Dr Helen Cserski 
 
         Ocean Physicist and Bubble Scientist at the Department of Mechanical Engineering at UCL. Helen studies the way the oceon breathes, focusing on bubbles formed on the ocean, a small jigsaw piece in a much larger puzzle that helpes us understand climate and weather. 
 
          
 
         Dr Sally Day 
 
         Senior Lecturer in the Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering at UCL. Sally’s research is based on liquid crystals and the process of polarization. Looking at light waves and the direction waves travel. Liquid crystals allow you to control the polarization. This process allows for things like wide screen TVs and being able to move your laptop round and still clearly see the screen. 
 
          
 
         Miss Laura Dempsey 
 
         PhD Candidate in Department of Medical Physics & Biomedical Engineering. Laura is working towards making a type of brain imaging device that uses light, which is harmless, portable, light & inexpensive, to scan the brain function of sick infants on the neo-natal intensive care unit. 
 
          
 
         Dr Sarah Gallacher 
 
         Research Scientist in Urban Interactive Things at UCL’s Interaction Centre (UCLIC) and the Department of Computer Science at UCL. Sarah explores new ways of connecting devices to the internet, such as fitbits, activity trackers etc, and new kinds of devices, how they could be applied and useful to people living primarily in cities. 
 
          
 
         Miss Hekla Helgadottir 
 
         Student in the Department of Computer Science at UCL. Hekla studies the fundamentals of computers, how they work and how they can be utilized in different ways. Learning how to program using programming languages, such as Java, and create programmes that make life easier. 
 
          
 
         Miss Susan Lechelt 
 
         PhD Student in Educational Technology at UCL’s Interaction Centre (UCLIC) and the Department of Computer Science at UCL. Susan looks at how to use new technologies to support learning in the classroom, gently introducing children to the world of making, coding and designing. Using Arduino microcontrollers, a variety of sensors and actuators, and Bluetooth technology, kids are able to explore how physical objects can sense the environment. 
 
          
 
         Professor Yvonne Rogers 
 
         Professor of Interacion Design & Director of the University College London Interaction Center (UCLIC) at the Department of Computer Science. Yvonne’s research looks at human centered data and the way in which it is collected from people and how the researchers engage with people in their communities. Reaearch is based on thinking about how users interact with technology, how to make devices easier to use, make work systems more efficient but also more enjoyable to use. 
 
          
 
         Professor Eva Sorensen 
 
         Deputy Head for Education and Professor of Chemical Engineering at UCL. Eva’s research focuses on fluid separation. This is the separation process of having two liquids mixed together which need separating, for example, when crude oil comes out of the ground there are 40/50 different elements, we need pure petrol for cars so the components need to be seperated. 
 
          
 
         Dr Fiona Truscott 
 
         Biochemical Engineer at the Department of Biochemical Engineering at UCL. Fiona engineers bacteria to make things that we need in society such as vaccines, antibodies, drug molecules. Genetically modifies bacteria, specifically Ecoli, by oxidation (addition of oxygen), which has shown anti-proliferation in prostate cancer cell lines, so it slows down metastasis, the process of the cancer cells spreading to other parts of the body.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 06 Jul 16 16:03 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Network Analytics... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Computer Science...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
