 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional)
      ›› COMPGX ›› COMPGX02 - Robotic Control Theory and Systems 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGX02 - Robotic Control Theory and Systems

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGX02
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	1
	Taught By	Stephen Hailes (100%)
	Aims	The students will gain insight into robotics and autonomous systems control theory and practice, specifically: 

             	Control loops. damping, feedback and stability analysis with a working understanding about how these are used for navigating a robot within an environment;
	Insight into developing a working prototype of a control system for a robot that solves a specific task.


	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should understand: 
1. Control systems for robots 
2. Control sensitivity and feedback problems 
3. Optimization of controllers
Programming with Matlab or Python or C++ and ROS.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         




             The aim of this course is to provide the basic theory required for solving control problems in robotics and autonomous systems trom a practitioner's point of view. 
            
            

             The course presents theory and methodology for analysis and modelling of systems and signals, and methods for design and synthesis of feedback controllers. Special emphasis is placed on: 
            
            

             • Control of systems with multiple inputs and outputs. - Fundamental control perlormance and sensitivity and robustness in feedback systems.  
            
            

             • Synthesis of controllers through optimization. - Predictive control with constraints. 
            
            

             In all cases, a theoretical treatment in lectures will be accompanied by corresponding practical exercises in either simulation or reality, in which students can exercise their skills.
            
           
          
         
         	
	
	

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         The module is delivered through a combination of lectures and lab classes.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Coursework (50%) 
 
         Exam (50%)
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
