 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› mresr ›› GX98 - MRes Robotics Dissertation 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGX98 - MRes Robotics Dissertation

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGX98
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Taught By	Danail Stoyanov and Vijay Pawar 
	Aims	The aim of this module will be for students to make a significant contribution to robotics and autonomous systems within a focused problem either theoretical or within an application domain. The students will go through the cycle of literature review, formulating a solution based on existing knowledge, and designing and validation framework involving extensive experimentation. Devising novel solutions to contribute to the implementation of existing technology will help students gain an insight into scientific research. The student will be expected to implement a working prototype of their system or algorithm design either in a practical implementation or within a simulation framework. The student will learn to write a thesis summarizing their project and to deliver presentations about their work as well as a demo as a proof of concept of their work.
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should understand:
1. Project design, specification and planning
2. Robotic system implementation and development of a specific problem
3. Robotics research methodology. design and experimental validation and verification
4. Thesis writing and reporting


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         





              Each project is unique and has its own natural length which will be discussed with the project supervisor to ensure that all relevant material is included. Typically the project will include a literature reviews chapter, a methods chapter detailing the techniques and developments implemented or performed by the student, an experimental chapter reporting the validation and experimentation achieved through the project and a discussion and conclusions chapter. This structure is only a guide and projects will be able to deviate from it as advised by the academic supervisor at UCL. The project code will also need to be submitted together with the project thesis. For mechatronically orientated projects equivalent material to code would include design files and plans. These will be uploaded in Moodle packaged as a bundle consisting of a pdf of the project thesis, the source code/design files and a documentation file (up to 5 pages maximum length) describing how to use or run the materials.
             
             

              Some example project categories are:
             
             

              • Tele-manipulation and the integration of haptic interfaces
             
             

              • Robotic assisted imaging and sensing 
             
             

              • Environment mapping for robot navigation 
             
             

              • Visual-servoing and robotic control systems 
             
             

              • Learning and intelligent robotic actions 
             
             

              • Applied robotics — eg. medical, inspection, manufacturing
             
            
           
          
         
         	
	
	

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         The module will consist of independent study, review of the literature, project design and specification, project development through software or hardware work and finally reporting through a thorough thesis. The work will be supervised by at least one of the MRes programme tutors and will be monitored by the programme director.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Coursework (100%) 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
