 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional)
      ›› COMPGV ›› COMPGV17 - Computational Modelling for Biomedical Imaging 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGV17 - Computational Modelling for Biomedical Imaging

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGV17 (also taught as COMPM077)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	
	Term	2
	Taught By	Danny Alexander, Ivana Drobnjak, Gary Zhang (100%)
	Aims	To expose students to the challenges and potential of computational modelling in a key application area. To explain how to use models to learn about the world. To teach parameter estimation techniques through practical examples. To familiarize students with handling real data sets.
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing this module should be able to:
             	Understand tha aims of biomedical imaging
	understand the advantages and limitations of model-based approaches and data-driven approaches
	Have knowledge of standard techniques in modelling, experimental design and parameter estimation.
	Understand the challenges of data modelling, experiment design and parameter estimation in practical situations
	gain knowledge of handling real-world data in computer programs.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The course introduces the basics of mathematical modelling: the distinction between models and the real world; when and how models are useful; advantages and disadvantages of explicit model-based approaches. 
 
         The course covers a range of model based approaches to biomedical imaging and basic computer science techniques that underpin them. The intention is to introduce the students to standard techniques of parameter estimation in a hands-on practical way within the context of model-based imaging. The course also gives exposure to common applications and challenges in biomedical imaging. 
 
         The content draws from examples at a range of lengthscales from molecular imaging, cellular scales in microscopy, regional scales, whole organ and whole population scales. The course uses each example to introduce both new kinds of model and, more fundamentally, new algorithms and techniques for parameter estimation, optimization, sampling and validation.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and lab classes. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (100%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Achieve a mark of 50% or more from all sections combined


         
The Coursework consist of two pieces: Coursework 1 (35%) and Coursework 2 (15%); as well as a Group and individual project (50%). 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Most of the material will come form journal and conference papers, which will be condensed into lecture notes. A few books provide wider reading:

         Keener and Sneyd, Mathematical Physiology, Springer, 1998

         Murray, Mathematical Biology, 1993

         Tofts, Quantitative MRI of the Brain, 2003
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
