 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus Index (2015-2016) ›› GZ99 - Project for MSc NCS 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGZ99 - Project for MSc NCS

       This database contains 2015-16 versions of the syllabuses. For current versions please see here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	 COMPGZ99 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	All taught courses within the stream
	Term	3
	Taught By	Various academic staff supervisors (Co-ordinator = Mark Handley) (100%) 
	Aims	To give students experience of undertaking and completing a large piece of work, applying techniques learned throughout the programme, including the technical skills of analysis, design and implementation. 
	Learning Outcomes	To be able to: work in a team developing a major project, plan and coordinate development activities, make realistic work commitments, present the work done effectively to a deadline. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Overview
There is no set syllabus: groups of students identify their chosen project area in conjunction with a supervisor who is a member of academic staff. The supervisor provides support and guidance. The project runs full-time from Easter onwards with the students responsible for organising themselves and their work, with advice from their supervisor. Student are expected to meet with their supervisor on a regular basis, as agreed with the supervisor.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Teamworking with support from the project supervisor.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Group Project Report (40%)
	Oral Examination (40%)
	Individual Project Report (20%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Books, papers, manuals etc. relevant to the project. 
 
         Detailed project guidelines can be found on Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
