 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Computer Science crochet wins Darwin competition
 
         
          
          

         
 
         When the Grant Museum moved to its new location from UCL’s Darwin building, the bust of the famous biologist that had stood in its window went with it.  A new eponymous figurehead was needed for the site where he lived, and where UCL biosciences researchers now continue his work. Through a university-wide competition the making and measuring skills of UCL’s population have been harnessed to create a multitude, although not quite an endless one, of Darwin forms. 
 
         A 3D scan of the bust recorded by UCL Civil, Environmental & Geomatics researcher Mona Hess was shared with members of UCL’s Institute of Making, the interdisciplinary open workshop and materials library housed within Engineering. The makers were challenged to recreate the Darwin bust from the data, using whatever making techniques they liked. The winner would receive £300, and all the Darwins were to be on show around UCL.  
 
         Cristina Amati, EngD student in Computer Science, created Darwin as a crocheted floating head complete with sparks of insight in his beard, and was judged to be the winner. Emeritus Professor of Genetics Steve Jones said, when awarding the prizes: 
 
         “We all agreed on the winner: it was so original, so eccentric and beautifully done by hand. Both as an image and a witty take on Darwin himself, a worthy winner.” 
 
         Cristina, who studies image aesthetics, said: 
 
         “This is a real surprise – I never expected to win. I made him as a little challenge because I was curious to see if I could crochet 3d geometry from reference images. I think he’ll be in good hands in the Grant Museum.” 
 
         See more here:

         	The Grant Museum
	The Institute of Making

 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 13 Feb 14 11:35 
         
 
          
          
           Next: 37 MSc and MEng students... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Google buys UK...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
