 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Financial Risk Management ›› G001 - Financial Data and Statistics 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG001 - Financial Data and Statistics

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG001
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students must be familiar with basic probability and statistics concepts. They must also have some familiarity with mathematical analysis.
	Term	2
	Taught By	Tomaso Aste (100%)
	Aims	The course is aimed at introducing to financial data analytics. The course is primarily focused on the observation of financial market dynamics of both individual assets and collective group of assets and the individuation of regularities, patterns and laws from a statistical perspective. Instruments to analyse, characterize, validate, parameterize and model complex financial datasets will be introduced. Practical issues on data analysis and statistics of high frequency and low frequency financial data will be covered.
	Learning Outcomes	Students will become able to analyse main statistical features of complex financial datasets. On successful completion of the course, a student should have a good understanding on: 1) the empirical probability distributions of financial returns; 2) how to characterize, parameterize and validate these distributions; 3) the quantification inter-dependency/causality structure between financial assets; 4) how to use the outcome of data-analytics to develop better tools for forecasting, valuation and risk management. 
Applications:
There is a great need to increase the data-analytics capability in the financial community. Instruments and tools provided by this course are essential for risk managers, financial modellers and forecasters.
Further information and material available to students on the course Moodle page.
 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Empirical investigation of financial market-data
Essential practical familiarization with financial data. Typical challenges with real financial data. Basics on data acquisition, manipulation, filtering, graphical representation and plotting. 
 
         Statistical properties single financial asset
Statistical distribution of returns. Moments of the distribution. Non-Normal distributions and fat-tails. Large fluctuations and tail risk. Stable distributions. Generalized extreme value distribution. Estimation methods to characterize the tails of the distributions. Calibration and validation. Applications to measures of risk. 
 
         Scaling laws
Random walks. Stochastic processes with non-defined variance. Fractal and multi-fractal nature of financial signals. Scaling laws. Persistence, anti-persistence and autocorrelation in financial signals. Hurst exponent, definition and characterization of multiscaling signals. 
 
         Statistical properties of groups of financial assets
Marginal probabilities, joint probability, and conditional probability. Measures of dependency: linear and non-linear correlations. Lagged correlations and causality. Information theoretic perspective: mutual information, transfer entrophy. Spurious correlations. Correlation filtering through networks. Calibration, validation and application issues.  
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         3 hours of lectures per week.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (50%) [24% assignments; 26% Test (last week of term)]
	Written examination (2.5 hours, 50%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended texts
Casella G. & Berger R. L., Statistical Inference, Brooks/Coles, 2002.
Bouchaud, J.- P. & Potters, M., Theory of Financial Risk and Derivative Pricing: from Statistical Physics to Risk Management, Cambridge University Press, 2003.
Lehmann, E. L. & Romano, J. P., Testing Statistical Hypotheses, Springer, 2006. 
 
         Further reading
Coles, S., An Introduction to Statistical Modeling of Extreme Values, Springer, 2001.
Gumbel, E. J., Statistics of Extremes, Echo Point Books & Media, 2013. 
 
         Further books and other resources will be indicated during the course.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 24 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
