 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC01 - Introductory Programming 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC01 - Introductory Programming

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGC01
	Year	MSc Computer Science 
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	1
	Taught By	Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui (100%)
	Aims	This course introduces imperative and object-oriented programming using pure Java. The module uses Java to give a grounding in key object-oriented concepts such as class design, inheritance, dynamic binding and interfaces. Material focuses on practicing object oriented programming to be better prepared for future courses including COMPGC02 Apps Design and COMPGC05 Algorithmics. This is an intensely practical module and full student engagement outside of lectures and in lab classes is critical to successful completion of the module.

	Learning Outcomes	After completing the module attendees will:   

             	Be able to design and implement object-oriented programs in Java, using a large sub-set of the language effectively.
	Have knowledge of key object-oriented principles and design strategies.
	Be able to use programming tools such as an integrated development environment (IDE), debugger, and code repository
	Implement simple graphical user interfaces.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Topics covered in lectures or via online material: 
 
         Introduction to Imperative Programming
What is imperative programming? Introduction to Java. Variables. Conditions and loops. Types and type checking. Operators and expressions.  
 
         Classes and Objects
Java class libraries. Creating and using objects. Object references.  
 
         Methods
Declaring methods and using method parameters. Scope and lifetime.  
 
         Packages and interfaces 
 
         Exception handling 
 
         Generics 
 
         Stream API and Lambda expressions  
 
         Graphical user interfaces 
 
         Using an IDE and SDKs
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, online materials, lab-classes and tutorial sessions. Self-directed learning, problem based learning. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         	In-class tests x 2 (60%)
	Coursework - programming exercises (40%)


         The Java coursework project for COMPGC01 is an individual project putting in practice the skills learned during the lectures/labs. Several weekly exercises are required to be completed and checked in labs. 
 
         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         A UCL Library reading list can be found on Moodle. 

The recommended Java programming text is: Beginning Java 8 fundamentals : language syntax, arrays, data types, objects, and regular expressions / Kishori Sharan. Apress 2014, ISBN 9781430266525; ISBN 143026652X *Accessible online from the UCL library 
 
         Note: The module is based on the latest version of Java (Version 8).
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
