 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus Index (2015-2016) ›› GZ04 - Network and Applications Programming 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGZ04 - Network and Applications Programming

       This database contains 2015-16 versions of the syllabuses. For current versions please see here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGZ04 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students should have an understanding of the basic principles of networked systems including naming, addressing, routing, protocol operation, design and implementation of network/transport and application-level protocols and middleware. 
	Term	2
	Taught By	Licia Capra (50%), Stephen Hailes (50%) 
	Aims	To provide a broad coverage of the main principles of building network-, transport-, and application-level communication protocols and APIs, including middleware. The module is very practical, with a large number of examples in C and Java, and is assessed completely on the basis of coursework that involves a substantial amount of programming. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students will be able to build communications software (protocols, applications and middleware) with standard APIs from C and Java. Students will also gain the knowledge and understanding required to design, build, analyse and test such software. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction and Overview
An outline of the module, including scope, depth and breadth of material to be covered. 
 
         Network Programming
Introduction to Tools - make, ant, cvs, doxygen
Socket Programming
TMote
Contiki
Networking Example Programs 
 
         Application Programming
Wireless Sensor Network Applications
Wireless Sensor Network Reference Architecture
Middleware (Coordination) Abstractions
Active Messages
Hood
Logical Neigborhood
TinyLime and TeenyLime
TinyDB
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations and lab-sessions.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 100%)


         To pass this course, students must:  

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes (Licia Capra) 
 
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
