 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› 3091 - Individual Project 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3091 - Individual Project

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	 COMP3091 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of the Computer Science undergraduate programme of study
	Term	1 and 2
	Taught By	Various academic staff supervisors (Co-ordinator = Graham Roberts) (100%) 
	Aims	To give students experience of undertaking and completing a large piece of work, applying techniques learned throughout the programme, including the technical skills of analysis, design and implementation. 
	Learning Outcomes	To be able to: work individually developing a major project, plan and coordinate development activities, make realistic work commitments, present the work done effectively to a deadline. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Overview
There is no set syllabus: students identify their chosen project area and are allocated a supervisor who is a member of the academic staff, responsible for providing support and guidance. Students are responsible for organising themselves and their work, with advice from their supervisor with whom they should meet on a regular basis, as agreed with the supervisor. The project begins in October and runs in parallel with normal teaching during terms 1 and 2. The submission deadline is at the start of term 3 just prior to the exams. In addition to the April final report a Project Plan must be submitted in mid-November, outlining the project aims and objectives and providing a work plan, and an Interim Report at the end of January, explaining what has been achieved so far and what it is planned to do during the remainder of the project; these documents are prepared with advice from their supervisor. 

Project Report
The final report documents the results of the project. The deadline for submission is 12 noon on the Friday of the first week of term 3. The project has a weight on 1 credit so represents one quarter of the student's final year work.


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Individual working with support from the project supervisor.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Reports and satisfactory completion of the project work (375 hours, 100%) 


         To pass this module, students must:

         	 Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Books, papers, manuals etc. relevant to the project.
 
         Detailed project guidelines
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
