 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GS04 - Tools and Environments 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGS04 - Tools and Environments

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGS04 (Also taught as: COMPM024) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students should have an understanding of the basics of programming and software engineering.
	Term	1
	Taught By	Jens Krinke (100%) 
	Aims	The course will train students in the principles and application of software tools and environments. The course will cover the fundamental practices that we would expect from any software professional we would want to hire. The course is based on our decades of experience on real projects, including the latest thinking on software process. For most students, it will introduce a lot of new material. 
	Learning Outcomes	On completion of the course unit, the successful student should have a good knowledge and understanding of the nature and variety of software tools and environments that are available for achieving software engineering tasks. The successful student should also be able to select appropriate tools and environments for the task at hand and to apply the tools and environments to achieve the task. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         

         Version and Configuration Management 
 
         Build and Integration Tools 
 
         Debugging and Profiling Tools 
 
         Software Analysis 
 
         Code Audit

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures, laboratories, coursework
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 75%)
	Coursework Section (3 pieces, 25%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Readings will be drawn primarily from journal and conference papers in the areas of software tools and environments. 
 
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
