 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 105P - Robotics Programming 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP105P- Robotics Programming

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP105P
	Year	1
	Prerequisites	None 
	Term	2
	Taught By	Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui
	Aims	The primary objective of the course is for student to engage in problem-based learning activities using programming as the tool. In this module, students will apply the programming they have learned in term 1, get experience with solving real non-trivial problems via hands-on engagement with a project.
	Learning Outcomes	Using software to solve problems, including strategies for structuring code, dividing problems up into pieces that can be solved independently, then integrating the pieces into a whole to solve a large problem.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The basics: Compile code, run code in simulator, upload code to the robot.

Movement: Write code from scratch to cause the robot to drive in a straight line, a square and a circle.

Motor Encoders: Extend code from week 2 to use the input from the motor encoders to adapt motor power.

Sensors: Reading values from bump sensors and the multiple distance sensors.

Line sensing: Reading values from line sensors on the under-side of the robot. Write calibration code.

Line following: Write code to follow a line of tape on the floor.

Wall avoidance: Write code to drive along following the left wall, while avoiding crashing into objects in front.

Mapping + racetrack: Write code to drive around a racetrack between walls as fast as possible.

Maze exploration: Write code to explore a maze and find the centre.

Module concludes with competition.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         2 x two-hour lab classes per week. Students will have access to the robots in class time, and access to a simulator to be able to work outside labs. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Continuous assessment. Each week there will be a specific task that must be achieved. Marks will also be awarded for performance in the robot race competition.


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Resources for this course are on Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
