 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GA14 - Information Security Management 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGA14 - Information Security Management

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGA14 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	1
	Taught By	Paul Jennings (100%) 
	Aims	The course will provide the student with an understanding of the principles of information security management that are commonly used in business. It will introduce the student to commonly used frameworks and methods and explore critically the suitability and appropriateness of these for addressing today's organisational security needs.
	Learning Outcomes	The successful participant will:

             	have an understanding of the key themes and principles of information security management and be able to apply these principles in designing solutions to managing security risks effectively;
	understand how to apply the principles of information security management in a variety of contexts;
	have an appreciation of the interrelationship between the various elements of information security management and its role in protecting organisations.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The course covers the principles of applied information security management and is suitable for those who are looking for an in-depth understanding of security management in medium to large organisations. The course comprises the following topics: governance and security policy, threat and vulnerability management, incident management, risk management, information leakage, crisis management and business continuity, legal and compliance, security awareness and security implementation considerations. 
 
         Under these broad headings, the following areas covered: ISO 27000 series and the Plan-Do-Check-Act model, assessment of threats and vulnerabilities, incident response, forensics and investigations, risk assessment and risk management frameworks, dealing with classified/ sensitive data, contingency planning, legal and regulatory drivers and issues, certification, common criteria, securiy awareness, education and training, and practical considerations when implementing the frameworks to address current and future threats.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         The module is delivered through a combination of lectures, classroom exercises and group discussion.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessments:

         	Unseen written examination (2.5 hours) (75%)
	Coursework (25%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain a mark of at least 50% for the module overall.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Resources can be found on Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
