 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus Index (2015-2016) ›› GZ06 - Mobile and Cloud Computing 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGZ06 - Mobile and Cloud Computing

       This database contains 2015-16 versions of the syllabuses. For current versions please see here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGZ06 (Also taught as COMPM038)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students should have taken Networked Systems (COMP3035/GZ01) or have prior equivalent experience. 
	Term	2
	Taught By	Kyle Jamieson (100%) 
	Aims	To explore recent research advances in wireless networked systems that combine wireless networking, mobile devices, and data-center-based services to provide new classes of applications. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students will gain an introduction to research literature in wireless networking, mobile devices, and data-center-based services.  In the process, they will develop an understanding of what constitutes a good research problem, and what constitutes convincing scientific evidence that a design robustly solves a problem.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Week 1 Class introduction.  Wireless introduction and wireless mesh networks. 
 
         Week 2 Wireless basics: Adapting to the wireless channel.  Partial packet recovery and error control coding. 
 
         Week 3 Advanced wireless topics: Wireless diversity.  Rateless error control codes. 
 
         Week 4 Wireless meets mobile: Indoor WiFi localization.  Mobile sensor hints for wireless networking. 
 
         Week 5 Cloud I: Peer-to-peer systems, consistent hashing, and DHTs.Cloud storage. 
 
         Week 6 Cloud II: Hybrid mobile-cloud applications.  Parallelism in the cloud. 
 
         Week 7 Cloud meets the Web: Photo caching on Facebook.  Building web applications atop encrypted data. 
 
         Weeks 8 to 10 Student paper presentations.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         There are usually two class meetings per week. 
 
         The class is organised in case-study fashion: student read about 20 recent research papers in the above areas, and critically discuss the systems described in these papers during class meetings.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (100%)


          To pass this course, students must:

         	 Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
         The coursework will include various sub-components:

         	To help gauge whether students are grasping the technical material in the assigned readings, at the start of lecture students turn in a one-page answer to a short question on the reading of the day (15%)
	Students make oral presentations in the final two-three weeks of term, in which they critically evaluate a research paper of their choosing (10%)
	There are three one-hour exams during the term, each focusing on papers discussed during the previous third of the term, though all prior material in the class is examinable (75%).

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Reading and further information for this module will be updated annually at the following web page: 
 
         www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/k.jamieson/teaching.html
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
