 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM028 - Language Based Security 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM028 - Language Based Security

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM028 (Also taught as: COMPGS10) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	An understanding of the basics of programming and software engineering.
	Term	2
	Taught By	David Clark (50%)Jens Krinke(50%)

	Aims	The aim of this module is to provide students with specialist knowledge and understanding to solve software related problems associated with the security of software systems.
	Learning Outcomes	Successful completion of this module will provide students with an understanding of the relationship between computer program design and security, how various security-related properties of computer programs are formulated and guaranteed, and in-depth knowledge of a variety of contexts in which understanding can be applied.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The course covers in depth major issues in computer security related to computer programming, in particular it provides a detailed treatment of theory and practice for:

         	Vulnerabilities and faults
	Secure information flow
	Semantics based malware detection


         Students will be introduced to removal of vulnerabilities of code via fault detection. Topics covered will include Data Flow Analysis, Buffer Overruns and Fuzz Testing.

The bulk of the course will be devoted to theory and practice of secure information flow. First students will learn how to use dependence analysis extracted via a slicing tool to do practical information flow control. Subsequently they will be taught some underlying theory and then examine more advanced topics such as flow sensitive type systems, information erasure, declassification and measuring information flow. This will be supported by tools such as JIF, PARAGON, a bounded model checker and the QIF Analyser.

The final part of the course will look at issues in semantics based malware detection, particularly at the limitations of such an approach with respect to semantic decidability and encryption/ packing techniques.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Delivery will be via a combination of lectures, problem solving sessions and traning on laboratory tools. Students will be given weekly exercises to explore and practice new techniques and tools. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Unseen written examination (2.5 hours, 70%)
	2 pieces of coursework (15% each)


         To pass the module students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50%
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Supplied via Moodle
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
