 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Financial Risk Management ›› G004 - Market Risk Measures and Portfolio Theory 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG004 - Market Risk Measures and Portfolio Theory

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG004
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Knowledge of linear algebra, probability and stochastic process theory. Introductory course in Financial Mathematics.
	Term	1
	Taught By	Camilo Garcia Trillos (100%)
	Aims/Learning Outcomes	The module aims to familiarise students with key concepts and models in general asset pricing, portfolio theory, and risk measurement. Those concepts and models include risk aversion, utility functions as a representation of preferences, efficient frontiers, Markowitz Portfolio theory, the Capital Asset Pricing model, Value at Risk, and Expected Shortfall.
Students will be able to apply the standard models in asset pricing, portfolio theory, and risk measurement. Students will be aware of the statistical and numerical limitations of these models and know about modern approaches to tackle those issues.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Utility functions and risk aversion models; stochastic discount factors, arbitrage and pricing kernels; portfolio choice and optimization, mean-variance analysis, beta pricing; dynamic financial markets; risk measurement, value at risk, expected shortfall and coherent risk measures; statistical and numerical issues.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         3 hour lectures per week.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment component: 
 
         	Written examination (2.5 hours, 100%)

 
         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	 Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended texts
 
 
         Back, K., Asset Pricing and Portfolio Choice Theory, Oxford University Press, 2010. 
 
         Cochrane, J. H., Asset Pricing, Princeton University Press, 2005. 
 
         Duffie, D., Dynamic Asset Pricing Theory, Princeton University Press, 2001. 
 
         Hans Föllmer, Alexander Schied, Stochastic Finance: An Introduction in Discrete Time, Walter de Gruyter, 2011 
 
         McNeil, Frey, Embrechts, Quantitative Risk Management: Concepts, Techniques and Tools, Princeton University Press, 2015
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
