 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional)
      ›› COMPGX ›› COMPGX04 - Robot Vision and Navigation 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGX04 - Robot Vision and Navigation

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGX04
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	COMPGX01, COMPGX02 and COMPGX03
	Term	2
	Taught By	Lourdes Agapito, Simon Julier and Paul Groves
	Aims	Students will gain knowledge about robot navigation with specific focus on the use of vision as a primary sensor for mapping the environment. The module will provide students with an understanding and practical experience of recovering geometry from optical sensors and creating an environment map which a robot can use for navigation and motion planning.
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should understand:
1. Visual odometry and 3D reconstruction
2. Path planning for autonomous motion
3. Navigation within known or unknown environments
Programming with Matlab or Python or C++ and ROS


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         




             For navigating safely, robots need the ability to localize themselves autonomously using their onboard sensors. Potential tasks include the automatic 3D reconstruction of buildings. inspection and surveillance. This course will teach current techniques for 3D localization, mapping and navigation that are suitable for robotics covering the following topics:
            
            

             • Motion estimation from images using visual odometry and SLAM
            
            

             • Filtering techniques and data fusion
            
            

             • Non-linear minimization for 3D reconstruction using structure-from-motion
            
            

             • Autonomous navigation, path planning, exploration of unknown environments
            
           
          
         
         	
	
	

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and lab classes. Simon Julier, Lourdes Agapito and Paul Groves will deliver lecture classes. Labs will use graduate demonstrators.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Coursework (100%) 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
