 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM014 - Requirements Engineering and Software Architecture 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM014 - Requirements Engineering and Software Architecture

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM014 (Also taught as: COMPGS01) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	Knowledge and practical experience of software engineering at least equivalent to UCL 3rd year software engineering group projects (COMP3092, COMP3093).
	Term	1
	Taught By	Emmanuel Letier (100%) 
	Aims	The course will train students in the fundamental principles and latest techniques in systems requirements engineering and software architecture. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students will learn how to discover, model, analyse and communicate requirements for software intensive systems and how to design, evaluate and communicate software architecture that meet these requirements. The emphasis will be on developing the students' modelling skills and their ability to communicate requirements and architectures with clarity and precision to business stakeholders and software developers. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         System Requirements Engineering
Goal-oriented requirements engineering, requirements engineering in agile projects.

Software Architecture
Architecture modelling, architectural styles, quality requirements.

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Each week the students will be given a concrete problem to solve and materials to read to help them solve the problem. The problem solutions and reading materials will be discussed in class followed by additional lectures summarizing fundamental principles discovered while solving the problems. The second part of the module will require students to work in groups to solve a case study and present their work to experienced IT consultants.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 75%)
	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 25%)

 
         To pass this module, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
          Lecture notes and readings will be given during the course. 
 
         
The main references are the following: 
 
         Alex van Lamsweerde, Requirements Engineering: From System Goals to UML Models to Software Specifications, Wiley, 2009. 
 
         Gojko Adzic, Impact Mapping: Making a big impact with software products and projects, 2012. 
 
         Nick Rozanski and Eoin Woods. Software Systems Architecture: working with stakeholders using viewpoints and perspectives. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2011.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
