 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMP3035 - Networked Systems 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3035 - Networked Systems

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3035 (Also taught as: COMPGZ01) 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of the Computer Science programme
	Term	1
	Taught By	Mark Handley (100%) 
	Aims	To offer a rigorous introduction to the problems that arise when networking computer systems, and algorithms and systems design that solve these problems. The architectural principles and protocols that underlie the internet will be explained in detail. Topics to be taught will include the physical layer, widely used link layers (wired and wireless), MAC protocols, internetworking, intra-domain routing, reliable transport, congestion control, wide-area (policy) routing, naming, network security, the end-to-end principle, and network applications. 
	Learning Outcomes	Understanding the nuances interactions between a network's distributed entities is a vital skill, without which one cannot truly be said to understand networking. To help students develop this skill, 3035/GZ01 incorporates significant programming courseworks in Python and Java, in which students build working implementations of network protocols. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Week 1 Introduction to Networking; Information, Error Control Coding, and Compression.

Week 2 Medium Access Control: CDMA, ALOHA, and Ethernet; Link Layer Addressing and Forwarding; Spanning Trees; MPLS.

Week 3 Achieving Reliability; Stop-and-Wait, Go-Back-N.

Week 4 Achieving Reliability (cont); Selective Repeat; Intro to Internetworking; Network Address Translation; Inside Internet Routers.

Week 5 The Domain Name System; Multi-hop Networks and end-to-end Arguments.

Reading week.

Week 6 Reliable Transport and TCP introduction.

Week 7 TCP and Congestion Control; Intra-Domain Routing: Introduction and Distance-Vector.

Week 8 Intra-Domain Routing: Link-State; Intra-Domain Routing: BGP.

Week 9 Intra-Domain Routing: BGP (cont); Wireless Networks: 802.11 MAC.

Week 10 Security: Firewalls, Worms and IDSes; Content Delivery HTTP, Web Caching, and Content Distribution Networks.

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, self-learning modules and tutorials
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework Section (40%);
	 Written Examination (2 hours, 60%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
            
 
         http://nrg.cs.ucl.ac.uk/mjh/gz01/index.html 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
