 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GZ07 - Professional practice 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGZ07 - Professional practice

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGZ07 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	N/A
	Term	2
	Taught By	Graham Collins, Department of Management Science and Innovation (School of Management)
Nicolas Gold, Department of Computer Science (CS)
 
	Aims	The aim of this course is to provide an viewpoint on the commercial realities of work within the area covered by the MSc FSE and MSc SSE and practical skills in project management. This is done in two parts: the first is a series of seminars given by those with practical experience of real problems at technical, managerial, financial and ethical levels. Most such speakers are drawn from industry and this part of the course is intended to stimulate a questioning and inquisitive approach to the field. We expect the material covered to be topical and either informative or presented in such a way as to encourage discussion. The aim of the project management part of the course is to prepare students for effective project work and, by extension and comparison, for effective teamwork in a commercial environment. The course will cover all aspects of project management lifecycle and will highlight which of the techniques are most appropriate for use for course GZ99/GS99. 
	Learning Outcomes	The ability to: assess the effectiveness of solutions presented and to question them in an intelligent way; synthesise solutions to general open-ended problems drawing on various sources of knowledge and tempered by information on commercial realities from this module; adopt reasoned ethical standpoints; apply good project management techniques in practice; appraise the utility of individual project management techniques within a given environment and originate new techniques within a sound framework; project the difference between use of project management techniques in small-scale activities such as the group project and those in industrial scale activities 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Overview
The topics for the seminars are determined by speakers and are dependent on their areas of expertise and current market conditions. 

         	What are projects and how do we measure their success?
	The role of the project manager in influencing the outcome of a project
	Basing the project on pure need
	The project plan
	Quantitative criteria
	Risk management
	Creating project teams
	Leading and motivating the team
	Budgets, schedules and resource allocation
	Systems engineering
	Monitoring and control
	Time management


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
          Lecture presentations, seminars and workshops 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Orally Assessed Coursework (50%); 
	Written Examination (2 hours, 50%).


         To pass this module, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined.


         
The oral coursework takes the form of a presentation on the students'  preparation for their upcoming summer projects and how the techniques and issues from GZ07 will be applied or managed therein. 

The examination consists of three questions of which students must select two to answer.   The examination is not based on the specific seminar topics of the course but will expect students to draw on these, and their general knowledge and wider reading to address unseen questions related to contemporary issues in software engineering and networked systems.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Students on this module are expected to maintain their awareness of broad computing issues as would be expected of a professional working in the field.  Regularly reading resources like slashdot, theregister.co.uk, Computer Weekly, Software Development Times etc should help to keep students abreast of the kind of trends and issues being raised and allow them to reflect on the implications of the situations and issues discussed there for their programmes of study and future fields of work (e.g. what does a situation imply about networking technology or skills, or how could software engineering change or be changed by what's happening?). 
 
         Reading List
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
