 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM030 - Distributed Systems and Security 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM030 - Distributed Systems and Security

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM030 (Also taught as: COMPGZ03) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	good understanding of object-oriented programming and design and networking protocols
	Term	1
	Taught By	Brad Karp (100%) 
	Aims	The first half of the class explores the design and implementation of distributed systems in case-study fashion: students read classic and recent research papers describing ambitious distributed systems. In lecture, students critically discuss the principles that cause these systems to function correctly, the extent to which these systems solve the problem articulated by the authors and the extent to which the problem and solution chosen by the authors are relevant in practice. The second half of the class explores computer system security, again, largely in case-study fashion.
	Learning Outcomes	Correctness under concurrency is a central challenge in distributed systems and one that can only fully be understood through experience of building such systems (and encountering subtle bugs in them). To give students experience of this sort, the module includes one significant programming coursework in C, in which the students implement a simple distributed system that must provide an ordering guarantee. Further written coursework helps students solidify their understanding of the security material in the class.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         	Course introduction; OS concepts
	Design: Worse is Better; Concurrent IO; RPC & Transparency
	Ivy: Distributed Shared Memory
	Bayou: Weak Connectivity and Update Conflicts; GFS: The Google File System
	RouteBricks: Cluster-Based IP Router; Introduction to Security; User Authentification
	Cryptographic Primitives I; Cryptographic Primitives II;
	Secure Sockets Layer (SSL); Reasoning Formally about Authentification : TAOS
	Software Vulnerabilities and Exploits; Preventing Exploits
	Containing Buggy Code: Software-based Fault Isolation; OKWS: Approximating Least Privilege in a Real-World Web Server 


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures, case-studies
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 70%)
	Coursework Section (30%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes (Brad Karp)
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
