 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› 2012 - Directed Reading 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP2012 - Directed Reading

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP2012 Directed Reading
	Year	2
	Prerequisites	N/A

	Term	2
	Taught By	James Brotherston (67%) and Fabio Zanasi (33%)
	Aims	To cover a wide range of key computer science topics. To get students used to independently reading about recent advanced in research. To provide presentation skills.
	Learning Outcomes	Students should attain an in-depth knowledge of a number of selected topics. Students should understand how to approach fairly advanced research texts and communicate the main concepts.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         The course will be based on directed reading and critical analysis of a number of computer science research papers.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Regular small group seminars.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Coursework (100%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined.


         There will be 5 pieces of assessed coursework, each on a different research paper.  The final piece of coursework also incorporates an oral presentation. Students will be assessed on their written analytical summaries of computer science research papers. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
