 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC27 - Programming for Business Analytics 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC27 - Programming for Business Analytics

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGC027
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	1
	Taught By	Daniel Hulme, with guest lecturers (100%)
	Aims	Increasingly firms are using the data to develop new insights about their customers and their behaviours.  Beyond consumer markets, (big) data-driven decision making is increasingly making its presence felt in the business-to-business and business-to-government sectors. Some organisations are even innovating their whole business models, creating new services through the novel application of data. As data-driven strategies take hold, they will become an increasingly important point of competitive differentiation. This module will provide you with a broad understanding of Data, you will utilise cutting-edge tool that will emphasizes the importance of developing adequate business models providing appropriate incentives for private-sector actors to share and use data for the benefit of the individual, firm and society.

	Learning Outcomes	Upon successful completion of the module, a student will be able to:
Define data, and understand how to scrape, cleanse and de-dupe data; Characterise and criticality assess good and bad data in the context of data-driven decision making; Utilise cutting-edge tools for Data, Information and Knowledge management; Understand Big Data, as well as be able to extract insights from large data-sets; Appreciate the technological and social challenges of managing Public and Private data, as well as the importance of Open Data to stimulate innovation; Identify the challenges associated with the Storage, Security, Processing and Governance of organisational data both internally and externally, batched and real-time; Recognise the differences between Structured, Unstructured and Semi-structured data, as well as the opportunities surrounding Linked-Data, Semantic Technologies and the Internet of Things; Utilise tools to Manipulate and Visualise data, and appreciate the challenges and opportunities of using data-mining and visualisation technologies; Critically assess the differences between Descriptive, Predictive and Prescriptive data analytics in the context of data-driven decision making, and apply cutting-edge tools to real-world data-analytics problems.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         	Data storage, security, processing, governance


	Data scraping, cleansing and de-duping
 
	Characteristics of useful Data
          
	Big Data, Linked Data and the Semantic Web


	Issues surrounding Public and Private Data


	DIKUW Pyramid


	Structured, Unstructured, Semi-structured


	Data Visualisation and Manipulation


	Descriptive, Predictive and Prescriptive data


	Extensive use of Data tools

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Lectures, seminars and workshops, with heavy emphasis on independent learning.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	1 Group Coursework (50%)
	1 Individual Coursework (50%)

 
         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50%.

 
         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         	Data Science for Business: What you Need to Know about Data Mining and Data     Analytic Thinking, T. Fawcett and F. Provost, O’Reilly, 2013.


	Thinking with Data: How to Turn Information into Insights, M. Shron, O’Reilly, 2014.

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
