 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional)
      ›› COMPGV ›› COMPGV20 - Computational MRI 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGV20 - Computational MRI

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGV20
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students must be familiar with basic probability and statistics concepts. They must also have some familiarity with mathematical analysis.
	Term	TBC
	Taught By	Gary Zhang (100%)
	Aims	The module aims to give the students an in-depth introduction to MRI from the computational perspective.  It is designed to be a core module for the students enrolled in the CDT in Medical Imaging who want to pursue a research project related to MRI.
	Learning Outcomes	Students will develop an in-depth understanding of MRI through learning and implementing, in silico, all the key components of modern MRI systems
 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         The syllabus of the module is as follows:

         	Introduction to magnetic resonance imaging.
	Classical description of a magnetic field acting on a single nucleus (equation of motion, rotating frame of reference, concept of magnetic resonance).
	Macroscopic magnetization: relaxation and the Bloch equation.
	Introduction to signal detection and acquisition (free induction decay, spin echoes, inversion recovery, and spectroscopy).
	Fourier imaging: the MR physics perspective (k-space, gradient echoes, slice excitation).
	Fourier imaging: the signal processing perspective (fundamentals of continuous and discrete Fourier transforms, sampling theory, and image reconstruction).
	Noise modelling and contrast mechanisms. 
	Radiofrequency pulses.
	Magnetic field inhomogeneity effects.
	Fast imaging: Echo planar imaging.
	Parallel imaging. Imaging applications (water/fat separation, spin density/T1/T2 quantification, diffusion, susceptibility, BOLD).

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         3 hours of lectures and 2 hour problem class/tutorial per week.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (75%)
	Project (25%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended texts
Brown, R.W., Cheng, Y.N., Haacke, E.M., Thompson, M.R., Venkatesan, R., Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Physical Properties and Sequence Design, 2nd edition, Wiley-Blackwell, 2014. 
 
         Further books and other resources will be indicated during the course. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
