 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC03 - Architecture and Hardware 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC03 - Architecture and Hardware

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGC03
	Year	MSc 
	Prerequisites	This course should be taken in conjunction with the core courses for MSc Computer Science.
	Term	1
	Taught By	Kevin Bryson (100%)
	Aims	To 'demystify' computers - i.e. to provide a basic understanding of how computers execute programs. To show how the basic components of the computer can be built from simple electronic components such as transistors and logic gates. To understand why certain design decisions are made with respect to computer architectures.
	Learning Outcomes	Students should understand how basic logical and arithmetic operations are implemented and performed using simple electronic components, which role each of the major components of a computer system performs, how instructions are executed, how memory is accessed and managed, etc. They should appreciate the main performance measures and constraints. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Boolean algebra: the abstract language that allows us to represent logical circuits. 
 
         Fundamentals of hardware: understanding of basic physics of electrical circuitry. 
 
         Transistors and memory: the building blocks of computer systems. 
 
         Binary and Hexadecimal: the representation of numbers used by computers. 
 
         Numbers in Computers: understanding how basic arithmetics are implemented with logic circuits. 
 
         Inside Computers: understanding a simple working model of a computer through a simulator. 
 
         Processor: how CPU executes instructions of a program. 
 
         MIPS: we investigate a real architecture, the structure of its instructions, and how to program at machine level. 
 
         I/O: various methods through which CPU communicates with the external world. 
 
         Memory and Disk: understanding basic concepts about primary and secondary storage, and learning their performance measures. 
 
         Memory Management: how CPU actually uses memory during computer operation. 
 
         CPU: to combine the machine level programming knowledge and the hardware components together through the MIPS example.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and web-based exercises.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         	Coursework Section using an electronic system with immediate feedback (1 piece, 10%)
	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 90%)


         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         The course does not have a single textbook; the following is only a recommended reading list for broader understanding of various subjects: 
 
         'The Architecture of Computer Hardware and Systems Software (3rd Edition)', Irv Englander, Wiley, 2003 (ISBN 0- 471-0732) 
 
         'Computer Organization and Design (3rd Edition)', Patterson and Hennessy, Morgan Kaufmann, 1999 (ISBN 1-55860- 4910-X) 
 
         'Structured Computer Organisation (4th Edition)', Tanenbaum, Prenctice-Hall. 1999, ISBM 0-13-020435-8 'Computer Organisation and Architecture', B.S. Chalk, Palgrave-Hall. 1996 (ISBM 0-333-64551-0)
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
