 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC06 - Database Systems 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC06 - Database Systems

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGC06 (Also taught as: COMP3013 Database and Information Management Systems) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	GC04
	Term	2
	Taught By	John Dowell (50%), Graham Roberts (50%)
	Aims	This module builds on the introduction to relational databases course in COMP202P/GC04. It covers advanced data modelling and database development methodology, the techniques exploited by relational database technologies relating in particular to query processing and transaction management, and post relational database technologies including object oriented databases and web databases. The coursework is an interesting group project lasting the duration of the term and building a web facing database system using very contemporary technologies. 
	Learning Outcomes	Understanding of the theory, methods and technologies of relational databases and their development. Competence with SQL and in building web facing database systems. Understanding of application issues and current trends in database technologies. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         

         	Database development: framework and techniques
	SQL and query processing
	Transaction management
	Architecture of relational database management systems
	Post-relational databases and their applications
	Web and database management systems
	Business intelligence


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Each week students will attend a 'theory' seminar (1-2 hours, led by JD), a 'lab' lecture (1 hour, given by GR), and a group session in the lab (1 hour). The 'theory' lectures are provided by online video only which students must watch in advance of the weekly seminar. The 'lab' lectures will teach students how to use the technologies needed for the coursework. Visiting speakers from industry will give some of the seminar sessions.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 70%);
	Coursework Section (1 piece, 30%).


         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined. 


         The examination rubric is:
Answer any 3 Questions out of 5. All questions carry equal marks.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Database systems: A practical guide to design, implementation and management, 3rd edition, Connolly/Begg, Addion Wesley, ISBN:0-201-70857-4 
 
         A comprehensive set of learning materials for the module are provided through moodle (UCL's e-learning environment) Link to Moodle
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
