 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMP3063 - Introduction to Cryptography 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3063 - Introduction to Cryptography

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3063 (Also taught as: COMPGA03 and COMPM063) 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of MEng Mathematical Computation
	Term	1
	Taught By	Emiliano De Cristofaro (100%) 
 
	Aims	For many centuries the goal of cryptography was the protection of privacy of communications. Computers, digital communication and in particular the internet have brought an abundance of new security goals. Examples are: anonymity, authenticity, non-repudiation, authorized wiretapping (called law enforcement), and traceability. To each need corresponds security mechanisms to achieve it. The goal of the course is to make students familiar with such techniques and some of the foundations of these methods. In particular students will be confronted with a range of security objectives, different levels of security that can be achieved and some available cryptographic techniques that can be used. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students start learning how to think from an adversarial viewpoint. The goal is to become familiar with basic techniques to protect data in computer and communication environments against several different varieties of fraud. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Classical cyphers
Cryptanalysis of classical ciphers
Probability theory
Perfect security

Block cyphers
DES
AES
Block cipher modes of operation 

Private-key encryption
Chosen plaintext attacks
Randomised encryption
Pseudorandomness
Chosen cyphertext attacks 

Message authentication codes
Private-key authentication
CBC-MAC
Pseudorandom functions
CCA-secure private-key encryption 

Hash functions
Integrity
Pre-image resistance
2nd pre-image resistance
Collision freeness
SHA-256
NMAC/HMAC 

Key distribution
Key distribution centres
Modular arithmetic and group theory
Diffie-Hellman key exchange 

Public-key Distribution
EIGamal encryption
Cramer-Shoup encryption
Discrete logarithm problem 

Digital Signatures
RSA signatures
RSA-FDH and RSA-PSS signatures
DSA signatures
X.509 certificates
Certification paths 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Tutor-led class sessions, problem-solving sessions and private study
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework Section (Three or four Exercise Assignments, 35%);
	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 65%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Katz and Lindell, Introduction to Modern Cryptography. SECOND EDITION. Chapman & Hall/ CRC Press, 2014
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
