 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee ›› Constitution 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Purpose 
 
        The Departmental Staff-Student Consultative Committee (SSCC) exists to provide a forum for discussion between the staff and students of the Computer Science Department. 
 
        The Policy for departmental Staff-Student Consulatative Committees is described in the UCL Academic Manual. 
 
        The department fully supports the StARs (Student Academic Representatives) initiative. 
 
        Membership
 
        The following shall be members: 

        	Elected student representatives (see " Student Representatives " below) 
	Members of the academic staff (see " Academic Staff Representation " below) 
	The head of the Technical Support Group
	The departmental Teaching and Learning Manager
	The departmental Facilities and Operations Manager


         The last four of these may appoint deputies to attend meetings on their behalf. 
 
        Note that the research student representatives attend to represent the interests of research students with respect to teaching related issues and issues that affect students in general. The SSCC is not a forum for the discussion of other issues, such as research supervision, specific to the research ativities of research students (these should be taken up with the Reseach Tutor). 
 
        Student representatives 
 
         Representatives will be elected following the scheme specified by the StARs Appointment Guide. The minimum recommended number of representatives for each year and degree programme is shown in the table below but the actual number can vary depending on student numbers and level of interest.

        	Undergraduate Years		
	1st year 	2	 
	2nd year 	2	 
	3rd year 	2	 
	4th year 	1	 
	Generalist MSc Programme		
	MSc CS	2	
	Advanced MSc Programmes
		
	Each programme with up to 25 students	1	 
	Each programme with more that 25 students	2	
	Two Year MSc		 
	MScICT	1	
	 MRes		 
	MResFC	1	
	Research Students		
	Years 1 & 2	2	
	Years 3 & 4	2	


        UCLIC has its own SSCC for MSc HCI-E students but the representatives are also invited to attend the CS committee. 
 
        Academic Staff Representation 
 
         The following will serve ex-officio : 

        	The Departmental Tutor (also programme director for undergraduates)
	The Programme Directors for each MSc and MRes programme
	The Research Students Tutor
	The Head of Department
	The Chair of the Teaching Committee (Director of Studies)


         Other members of the academic staff will be co-opted as necessary. 
 
        Meetings 
 
         Meetings will take place two times a year, normally in November and February. Additional meetings may take place as agreed by the student representatives and the Chair of the Teaching Committee. 
 
        Conduct of Meetings 
 
         The meetings will normally be organised by the Departmental Tutor who will solicit items for the agenda at least one week in advance. Each meeting will normally be chaired by one of the student representatives, otherwise the Departmental Tutor will be the chair. The Undergraduate Administrator will normally act as secretary to the meeting. Minutes will be taken and will be made available to all staff and students via the committee website. The minutes will be provided in time for consideration at the next meeting of the Departmental Teaching Committee. 
 
        Terms of Reference

        	to discuss follow-up action resulting from previous SSCC meetings, in particular any matter which was referred to the Departmental Teaching Committee (DTC) meeting;
	to comment upon the outcome of degree programme and course evaluation questionnaires and any consequent follow-up action;
	to receive notification of any Departmental changes with respect to teaching, admissions, and assessment; 
	to comment upon any significant changes to Departmental policy which would have a direct consequence for teaching, admissions, and assessment; 
	to comment upon safety within the Department;

 to comment upon physical resources within the Department e.g. computer/library facilities etc.; 
         	to make students aware of the Departmental Equal Opportunities Liaison Officer; 
	as part of UCL's quality control processes;
	to receive and consider copies of the annual reports of the Chairs of Boards of Examiners; 
	to report to the DTC by submission of minutes of each meeting of the SSCC.


         
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
