 
   
    
     
     
     
   
 
   Cristina Amati
 
    University College London 
 
   
 
    
   General Information
 
   	 
     	Role :	EngD Student
	Email :	c.amati@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
	Office :	Room 7.08, Mallet Place Engineering Building
	Address :	Department of Computer Science 
 University College London
 Gower Street, WC1E 6BT
 London

 
    

 
   
 
    
   Research
 
   	 
      I am an EngD student sponsored by Anthropics Technology Ltd., working under primary supervision of Dr. Tim Weyrich and secondary supervision of Dr. Niloy Mitra. My research project is concerned with the aesthetics of images and crowd sourcing. 
 
    
	 
      In the past I have been involved in a group project regarding the creation of readily printable, non-assembly, articulated 3D figurines. 
 
    
	 
      Previously I've completed a Master's degree in Vision, Imaging and Virtual Environments within UCL with a thesis on creating 2.5D animations from ink paintings. 
 
    

 
   
 
    
   Peer-Reviewed Publications
 
   	 
     	
         
          
         
 	
          
          A Study of Image Colourfulness
          
 Cristina Amati, Niloy J. Mitra, Tim Weyrich.
          
 
          CAe '14 (Proceedings of the Workshop on Computational Aesthetics), p23-31, Vancouver, 2014.
          
 
          [Webpage]
         
 
	
         
          
         
 	
          
          3D-Printing of Non-Assembly, Articulated Models
          
 Jacques Cali, Dan Calian, Cristina Amati, Rebecca Kleinberger, Anthony Steed, Jan Kautz, Tim Weyrich.
          
 
          ACM Transactions on Graphics (Proc. SIGGRAPH Asia 2012), Vol. 31, No. 6, pp. 130:1-130:8, 2012.
          
 
          [PDF] 
          [Video] 
         
 
	
         
          
         
 	
          
          Modeling 2.5D Plants from Ink Paintings
          
 Cristina Amati and Gabriel J. Brostow.
          
 
          SBIM '10 (Proceedings of the Sketch-Based Interfaces and Modeling Symposium (SBIM), p41-48, 2010
          
 
          [PDF]
         
 

 
    

 
  
   
 
