 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› MPhil/PhD ›› CS Facilities 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Facilities in the Department

        
 
         
         
        	Out of Hours Work
	Personal Workspace
	Staff Common Room
	Photocopying and Printing
	Stationery and Telephones
	Technical and Equipment


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Out of Hours Work

        
 
         
         
        Research students have access to the department every day of the week from 7am to 11pm.  We believe that these hours provide students with adequate time in which to work.  Should you need to access the department’s facilities outside of these times you should speak to the Department Facilities Manager, JJ Giwa-Majekodunmi (internal extension: 57001) and we will endeavour to come to a temporary arrangement. 
 
        Please remember that you are required to keep your identity card with you and displayed at all times, even in normal working hours.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Personal Workspace 

        
 
         
         
        The following is a basic outline of the CS policy for allocating personal workspace to research students:

        	Full-time postgraduate research student (MPhil/PhD) will be assigned a hotdesk during their first year of study and a personal desk during the following 2/3 years of their agreed period of study.
	Desk allocations may be altered or amended (with prior consultation) with a student and/or principal supervisors, although the Head of Department may impose allocations where agreement cannot be reached.  This is primarily dependent on whether the allocated desk is utilised by the student.
	Research staff, who are also part time PhD students, will have use of desk spaces in the Peter T. Kirstein Room.
	PhD students will be expected to vacate the assigned desk promptly at the end of their period of registered research, and use a writing-up desk if they need to continue working in the department whilst on CRS.
	Periods of absence (ie interruptions and/or studying abroad) must be notified to JJ Giwa so that arrangements may be made for a desk to be re-allocated temporarily while the normal occupant is away.

 
        Since most research students work in open plan offices they should be aware of the Department's code of conduct, which has been written for all staff, academic visitors and research students.  First year PhD students should especially take note of the information regarding the Peter Kirstein room. Both the code of conduct and information on the Peter Kirstein room are distributed during the departmental registration. 
 
        Please do try and comply with the guidelines as they have been set to ensure the best working environment! 
 
        [back to top]
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Staff Common Room and Meeting Rooms

        
 
         
         
        Despite its name the Staff Common Room is also a space available to research students.  It is equiped with a shared fridge, microwave, and coffee machine, all of which are available for research student use, and currently also houses a foosball table! 
 
        Because it is a social meeting place, it is not always the best place to hold a meeting!  
 
        If you plan to have a meeting, you can book a room by emailing the Departmental Office (facilities@cs.ucl.ac.uk).  Please ensure you do this with at least 2 days notice.  If a last-minute meeting, the Departmental Office should be able to advise you as to whether any rooms may be available.  For Campus wide room bookings you should contact Central Room Bookings on facilities@cs.ucl.ac.uk, or see Central Room Bookings website for more contact details and room availability. 
 
        [back to top]
 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Photocopying and Printing

        
 
         
         
        Photocopying, printing and scanning facilities are available to all research students in the department free of charge.  The machine is located in the copier room (5.24).  There are no limits to students' quotas, though we do ask that you try to restrict your usage to work-related jobs.  Please report any problems with the machine to the Departmental Facilities Manager, JJ Giwa, in the Department Office (5.25, x33669). 
 
        UCL libraries also have photocopying facilities. These require a specific card which can be purchased from machines in the libraries themselves.  
 
        [back to top]

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Stationery and Telephones

        
 
         
         
        The department keeps stationery, pens, pads of paper, folders, ohps, etc. which students can use freely but must sign for.  This procedure is exactly the same for staff as well as students, again to try and keep usage to that that is necessary. 
 
        We currently endeavour to provide all research students in the department with a direct telephone line at their desk space.  Student telephones are restricted to internal calls only and are for work purposes, not for personal phone calls.  To ensure it is not misused users will be charged for any calls that exceed the £20 monthly limit.  If the project you are working on requires you make calls exceeding this limit your PI needs to arrange with the Department Facilities Manager, JJ Giwa (5.25, x33669) for the excess to be charged to the project.  If you require a phone itself, you should also request this from the Department Facilities Manager. 
 
        [back to top]

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Equipment and Technical Support

        
 
         
         
        We aim to provide new PhD students with an existing machine when they first arrive, until their requirements are clear.  For students whose equipment is not covered by Research Council, project grant, or other funding source, the Department of Computer Science will also fund a new workstation.  
 
        This purchase has to be firstly discussed with a student's supervisor & the Gradute Tutor (all research students will only get bought equipment once).  Once agreed, the primary supervisor should send their specifications to the CS Technical Support Group by emailing request@cs.ucl.ac.uk (cc to the Graduate Tutor - a.hunter@cs.ucl.ac.uk & Postgraduate Administrators, cs.researchdegrees@ucl.ac.uk), who will provide a quote and organise the purchase. 
 
        For technical support generally see the Department's Technical Support Group pages as well as for information about other facilities, and additional guides to setting up and using the department's technical facilities, software etc:

        	Local tools under Unix (and DOS/Windows); X, text editors (emacs, jove, vi), document preparation (psroff, TeX, LaTeXe, FrameMaker, Word, WordPerfect), electronic mail, bulletin boards (especially Internet); 
	Access to UCL ISD facilities; 
	Departmental document series; 
	Other local facilities. 


        Technical problems or requests for assistance should be sent to request@cs.ucl.ac.uk for the problem to be picked up by the TSG Helpdesk (Room 4.22, x37280). 
 
        [back to top]

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 12 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Research Student Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
