 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› December 3rd 2014 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Department of Computer Science 
 
        STAFF STUDENT CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE      
 
        Wednesday 3rd December 2014
 1.04 Malet Place Engineering Building 
 
        M I N U T E S 
 
        STAFF PRESENT: 
 
        Dr Graham Roberts (Departmental Tutor, DEOLO, Director of Studies, Chair), Jill Saunders (Departmental Administration Manager), 
 
        STUDENT ACADEMIC REPRESENTATIVES PRESENT: 
 
        Yee Tan (1st Year UG Rep), Alexander Gamble (2nd Year UG Rep), Necati Munir (3rd Year UG Rep), Manoj Vaseekharan (3rd Year UG Rep) Michael Boon (4th Year UG Rep), Jonas Hou (WSBDA Rep), Johnny Ball (CSML Rep), Mangjiao Wang (CSML Rep), Fayi Femi-Balogun (ML Rep)   
 
        IN ATTENDANCE: 
 
        Victoria West, Undergraduate Administrator (Secretary) 
 
        	 
            	 
                 
                 Key to abbreviations
 
                 DTC      Departmental Teaching Committee
 
                 SSCC   Staff Student Consultative Committee
 
                 DEOLO  Departmental Equal Opportunities Liaison Officer
 
                 TSG        Technical Support Group
 
                  
 
                
 

  

 
        1        APOLOGIES FOR ABSENCE   
 
        The Chair welcomed the committee and noted apologies for absence from JJ Giwa (Facilities and Operations Manager). 
 
        2        NOTIFICATION OF ANY OTHER BUSINESS 
 
        There were no items notified to be discussed as any other business.              
 
        3        APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE LAST MEETING ON 25th March 2014.
 
        The minutes were approved as an accurate record of the meeting.  
 
        4        MATTERS ARISING FROM THE MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING:
 
        4.1     Potential New building for CS (Graham Roberts)
 
        Graham explained the plans for part of the department to move to 66-72 Gower Street in March.  This building would also include space for a “student hub” for use by the students in the department.  Information would be circulated to all students on the location of staff.  In the longer term a new building is being planned to bring the department back together in one location.  As details become available this will be passed onto students. 
 
        4.2     MScFC actions (Antoaneta Serguieva)
 
        Antoaneta was not in attendance at the meeting and therefore an update would be given at the next meeting. 
 
        Agenda Items 
 
         5.      Teaching Matters 
 
        5.1     COMP3001 (Manoj Vaseekharan)
 
        Manoj asked if students were given lower marks for not participating in group coursework as there are students on this module who are not participating in the groups.  Graham confirmed that academic staff were aware of this issue and students would did not participate in the groups were contacted and due to the assessment criteria would receive a lower mark. 
 
        5.2    MScCSML and MScML class survey (CSML & ML reps) 
 
        The CSML and ML reps had circulated a survey for students on these programmes to complete.  The survey highlighted a number of issues which it was agreed would be raised directly with the relevant programme directors at meetings to be arranged with the reps. 
 
        5.3    Help choosing MScWSBD modules (Jonas Hou) 
 
        Jonas raised concerns that there was limited information available to students at the start of the           academic year when choosing their optional modules. It was felt that more information should be available on the webpages and at induction including information on pass/fail rates.  Jill advised that information was available on the CS webpages as part of the quality assurance and annual monitoring. 
 
        5.4    Help with academic writing (Jonas Hou) 
 
        Many students on the MScWSBD programme are international students and there was limited help available with academic writing.  Jill advised that there were courses available to students free of charge and she would circulate the details following the meeting. 
 
        5.5    Moodle forum messages (Jonas Hou) 
 
        Jonas asked if it is possible for messages sent out via moodle to be condensed into a daily digest.  It is possible for students to set this on their individual moodle profiles and for each module. However this can lead to information being missed due to the length of the digest that comes through. 
 
        5.6    Coursework deadlines 
 
        It was raised that many coursework deadlines were scheduled either on the same day or very close together.   Graham advised that deadlines were currently being reviewed as academic staff were aware that this had become an issue especially for students taking optional modules in other departments. 
 
        
 
        6.       Facilities
 
        6.1    Student Common Room (Manoj Vaseekhara) 
 
        Manoj asked if there was space available for student common room that the students would manage. Graham advised that this would not be possible currently in the space the department has however it would be considered in the future building plans 
 
        6.2    Water fountain on 1st floor near labs (Manoj Vaseekhara) 
 
        JJ had liaised with the estates department however this is not possible given the plumbing of the building.  There is water available on other floors and at the back of the Engineering café by the lecture theatres. 
 
        6.3    Lockers (Manoj Vaseekhara) 
 
        Manoj asked if it was possible for student lockers.  Graham advised that these had been available in       the past however due space restrictions and the number of students.   This will be considered in future building plans. 
 
        7.     Any Other Business 
 
        No items for discussion. 
 
        8.       THE NEXT MEETING IS DUE TO BE HELD IN MARCH 2015 
 
        Victoria West                                                   
 
        Undergraduate Administrator 
 
        Department of Computer Science 
 
        [020 7679 3690, UCL extension 33690, email: v.west@ucl.ac.uk ]  
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
