 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students ›› Degree Programme 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Degree Programme Information

        
 
         
         
        Use the links below to find detailed information about your degree programme and management of your studies.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Undergraduate Programmes

        
 
         
         
        Information about your curriculum, module syllabuses, tutorials etc.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          First Year
 
           
            
            
             
            	General Information
	Tutorials
	Curriculum - BSc & MEng Computer Science
	Curriculum - MEng Mathematical Computation

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Second Year
 
           
            
            
             
            	Welcome Back
	Tutorials
	Curriculum Year 2 BSc and MEng Computer Science
	Curriculum Year 2 MEng Mathematical Computation

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Third Year
 
           
            
            
             
            	Welcome Back
	Tutorials
	COMP3091 Project
	Curriculum - BSc
	Curriculum - MEng CS
	Curriculum - MEng International
	Curriculum Year 3 MEng Mathematical Computation

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Fourth Year
 
           
            
            
             
            	Welcome Back
	COMPM091 Individual Projects
	Tutorials
	Curriculum
	Curriculum - Year 4 MEng Mathematical Computation

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          MEng Computer Science (International)
 
           
            
            
             
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                

               

              

             

            
 
             
           
 
            
            
            
             
            
             MEng Computer Science International Programme: G403

            
 
             
             
            This page contains information for UCL Computer Science undergraduate students who are interested in studying for a period abroad as part of their degree programme. Students from other universities who are considering studying for a period at UCL should consult the page for affiliate students. If, having read this information, you have any questions please contact:

            	The departmental Study Abroad Tutor: Dr Earl Barr (for departmental queries)
	The UCL Study Abroad Office (general advice)


            Please also see the Study Abroad Website, particularly the UCL Study Abroad Student Handbook. 
 
            Study Abroad Information Session 
 
            The Study Abroad Team will be holding an information session for students interested in spending their third year abroad in 2015/16. See here for more details - they are managed by UCL’s study abroad team.
 
             
           
 
            
            
            
             
            
             Introduction

            
 
             
             
            UCL Computer Science is very pleased to be able to offer a variant of its MEng programme to include a study abroad year. This year is taken in place of the third year, offering you the opportunity to:

            	continue advanced education in computer science;
	experience education in a different cultural and/or linguistic setting;
	access high level teaching and research expertise from outside UCL.

 
            The MEng degree is awarded to students who successfully complete the programme including usually no less than two units of project work. In other words, you normally need to complete the equivalent of a unit of project work while abroad in your third year.
 
             
           
 
            
            
            
             
             
             
              
              Partner Institutions
 
               
                
                
                 
                We have a range of partner institutions, all 'elite' institutions with excellent academic reputations in computer science: 
 
                European countries on Erasmus agreements with the Department:

                	Italy: Universita di Pisa, Polytechnico di Milano

	Germany: Technische Universität Dresden, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Universität Paderborn, Universität Duisberg-Essen

	Spain: Universitat de Valencia, 
Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya

	France: University of Montpellier II, 



                	Switzerland: ETH Zurich


                Other countries on agreements at a Faculty or UCL level

                	Australia: University of Melbourne, The University of Queensland, University of Western Australia

	Canada: McGill University, University of British Columbia, University of Waterloo, University of Toronto

	United States: Caltech, Rensselaer Polytechnic, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Columbia University, Rutgers - State University of New Jersey, University of Illinois Urbana Champaign, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, University of Washington, John Hopkins University, University of Massachussets - Amherst, University of Texas at Austin, Georgia Institute of Technology

	Hong Kong: Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, City University Hong Kong

	Japan: Waseda University (Tokyo),

	Singapore: National University of Singapore
	New Zealand: University of Auckland
	Mexico: Tecnológico de Monterrey


 
                 
               
 
                
              
 
              Application and Deadlines
 
               
                
                
                 
                Ideally, you should have registered your interest by email to the department's Study Abroad Tutor, Dr Earl Barr, giving details of your first year grades and the reasons for wanting to study abroad in the first week of your second year. You will have to go to the Study Abroad Information Session organised by the faculty in October. 
 
                 You then have to go to the Study Abroad Fair <http://www.ucl.ac.uk/studyabroad/study-abroad-events> organised by the Study Abroad Team. Immediately after the fair you have to apply to transfer to the International Programme and meet with the department's Study Abroad Tutor, Dr Earl Barr. If it your application is approved, you can transfer to to the International Programme. 
 
                If your application is successful, you will be registered in the Study Abroad Preparation Programme which is running in the spring term. 
 
                If you are already on the International Programme, you have to follow the same procedure. In the case that your application to the Study Abroad Team is not successful or your performance in the second year is not sufficient, you will be transferred to the normal MEng Computer Science Programme. 
 
                 
               
 
                
              
 
              Eligibility
 
               
                
                
                 
                You have to have a 2.1 average in the first year to be able to transfer to or stay on the International Programme. You also have to maintain a 2.1 average in your 2nd year or risk not being allowed to go abroad. 
 
                If you wish to study in a language other than English, you must be able to demonstrate linguistic competence through qualifications and/or following UCL Centre for Languages and International Education courses. The Department may ask the Centre to assess students seeking to study abroad.
 
                 
               
 
                
              
 
              Financial Support
 
               
                
                
                 
                UCL's Access Agreement includes support for students on programmes which include a year abroad. Further information about finance is available from the Study Abroad web site.
 
                 
               
 
                
              
 
              Your studies whilst abroad
 
               
                
                
                 
                Students studying abroad must follow a programme that is to the fullest extent possible agreed in advance with the Study Abroad Tutor. The programme MUST:

                	be overall of equivalent depth to that of the UCL 3rd year MEng Computer Science programme;
	be substantially composed of courses in computer science or closely allied disciplines such as electrical engineering and mathematics;
	have a significant engineering orientation (as defined by UK-SPEC), be compliant with the QAA benchmark framework;
	be of equal workload to that of the UCL 3rd year MEng that is, using accepted equivalence measures, be of 4 course-units;
	be formally assessed by the host institution and the results of the assessment independently reported to the  Study Abroad Tutor;
	include taught courses/units, that is should not consist solely of project work;
	be formally documented by the student in an up to date written study plan, signed by the Study Abroad Tutor and kept by the Departmental Tutor.


                The UCL Study Abroad Office monitors attendance. You will be required to submit an attendance form signed and stamped by the host institution (one for each term/semester you are on placement). 
 
                You MUST follow the guidance of the UCL Study Abroad office and the British Embassy with respect to personal safety and conduct while overseas. You must also adhere to the disciplinary rules and requirements of your host institutions. You will be required to report any circumstances that might affect your academic progress, such as illness or other problems, immediately to both UCL and the International Office of your host institution. The Department will arrange for at least one visit during the study abroad programme from a member of staff. You are required to make yourself available for such a visit. 
 
                The Study Abroad Office organises preparatory courses and briefings. Completion of these, and the accompanying UCL Study Abroad Passport, is a required element of this programme. 
 
                Equivalence of courses and marks is to be determined based on UCL practice covering the European Credit Transfer Scheme (ECTS) as currently used in the on-going pilot scheme, and other credit transfer schemes as from time to time approved by UCL.  The results reported will be reviewed by a panel consisting of the Chair of the Board of Examiners, the Departmental Tutor and the Study Abroad Tutor, reporting to the Board of Examiners.
 
                 
               
 
                
              
 
              When you return to UCL
 
               
                
                
                 
                On returning to Year 4, you must have your option courses agreed by the Study Abroad Tutor and Departmental Tutor in order to ensure that any possible gap in subject coverage caused by attending an overseas institution, is duly filled. Particular attention will be paid to coverage of the 3 compulsory courses in Year 3.
 
                 
               
 
                
              
 
             
 
            
 
             
             
           
 
            
          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Postgraduate Programmes

        
 
         
         
        The home page of your programme.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          Specialist MSc Programmes
 
           
            
            
             
            	MSc Business Analytics
	MSc Computational Finance
	MSc Computational Statistics and Machine Learning
	MSc Computer Graphics, Vision and Imaging
	MSc Computer Science - Mahidol University - Thailand
	MSc Data Science (Computer Science)
	MSc Financial Systems Engineering
	MSc Financial Risk Management
	MSc Human-Computer Interaction with Ergonomics
	MSc ICT Innovation
	MSc Information Security
	MSc Machine Learning
	MSc Software Systems Engineering
	MSc Web Science and Big Data Analytics

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Generalist MSc Programmes
 
           
            
            
             
            	MSc in Computer Science

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Research Degree Programmes
 
           
            
            
             
            	EngD VEIV
	MPhil/PhD
	Centre for Doctoral Training in Financial Computing & Analytics

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         General Information

        
 
         
         
        Information about assessment, coursework, exams, feedback and more.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          Information for all students
 
           
            
            
             
            	Timetables
	Coursework Deadlines
	Coursework Cover Sheet
	Syllabus Information
	Exam Results
	Staff-Student Committee
	FAQ for Non-CS Students
	Individual Projects

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Information for undergraduates
 
           
            
            
             
            	Year 3 BSc CS
	Curriculum
	Assessment

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Academic Accreditation of CS Programmes
 
           
            
            
             
            
             Academic Accreditation of CS Programmes

            
 
             
             
            1. Undergraduate programmes
 
            We’re very pleased to report that all our undergraduate programmes are fully or partly accredited (as appropriate) by both the IET (Institution of Engineering and Technology) and the BCS (the Chartered Institute for IT). Please see below for current details.

            
 
            G400 BSc Computer Science:
 
            IET 
            	CEng (partial fulfilment). This programme is CEng accredited and fulfils the educational requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer when presented with an accredited MSc. In addition, the programme meets the educational requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer.

 
            BCS
            
(Note that CITP and CSci are new accreditation arrangements applying to students starting in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019): 
            	CITP = Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional. 
	CSci (partial fulfilment) = Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Science Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Scientist.

 
            
 
            G401 MEng (Hons) Computer Science, and  
            G403 MEng (Hons) Computer Science (International Programme):
 
            IET 
            	CEng. These programmes are CEng accredited and fulfil the educational requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.

 
            BCS
            
(Note that CITP and CSci are new accreditation arrangements applying to students starting in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019: 
            	CITP = Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional. 
	CSci (partial fulfilment) = Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Science Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Scientist.

 
            
  
            
G430 MEng Mathematical Computation:
 
            IET 
            	CEng. This programme is CEng accredited and fulfils the educational requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.

    
            
 
            2. Master's Programmes
 
            MSc Software Systems Engineering,  
            MSc Financial Systems Engineering, and  
            MSc Networked Computer Systems:
 
            IET 
            	Partial CEng (Further Learning). These programmes are CEng accredited and fulfil the educational requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer when presented with a CEng accredited Bachelors programme.

 
            BCS 
            	CITPFL = Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the further learning academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional. 
	CEng (partial fulfilment) = Accreditation by the BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
The cohorts covered by the BCS accreditation are those starting 2012-2019.

 
            
 
            	For more detail about the categories of accreditation listed above please see the BCS guidelines at http://www.bcs.org/content/ConTab/79 and the IET pages at http://www.theiet.org/academics/accreditation/

 
            
 For other enquiries about accreditation, please contact 
            Denise Gorse or 
            Nisha Gosai 
            
 
             
           
 
            
          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 10 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Steve Marchant 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
