 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Careers ›› Departmental Research Internships 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Departmental Research Internships

        
 
         
         
        Departmental Research Internships offer intermediate-year (i.e. not first or final) students in the Department of Computer Science the opportunity to gain research experience with one of the department’s world-leading research groups.  The internships take place during the summer vacation. 
 
        Students will undertake a project under the supervision of one or more members of staff in the department.  The project lasts for between eight and ten weeks and can take place between the end of the exam period and the start of the new academic year (by arrangement between student and supervisor).  Students will be provided with necessary software and equipment to undertake the work. 
 
        Interns will be employed and paid in accordance with UCL Internship Policy (www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/docs/internships.php), accrue annual leave, and be entitled to statutory sick pay and other pay (see the policy for further details).  Currently the rate of pay is £9.15 per hour with the expectation of no more than a 36.5 hr working week.  Interns are subject to UCL Right to Work checks. 
 
        The department hopes to fund up to 5 internships this year.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Click here to see research internship proposals now available
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Application Process for Students

        
 
         
         
        Students wishing to apply for a research bursary should consult the list of project proposals from members of staff above. If a project is of interest, please contact the member of staff concerned  to arrange an initial discussion.
 
 
        Each supervisor will run a "fair and open" (www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/docs/internships.php) procedure to select one or more students for their internship(s). Once a student and supervisor have agreed on a project, the supervisor will take over the application process.
 
        Deadline for contacting staff is 14 March 2017.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Application Process for Supervisors

        
 
         
         
        Supervisors wishing to propose projects should email these to Chris Clack as soon as possible. 
 
        Once a student has expressed interest in a project, please arrange a meeting to discuss the timing, detail and so forth.  If more than one student is interested, please arrange a fair process of assessing who is the most appropriate to take forward (e.g. a simple standard interview). 
 
        If you are happy that the student is suitable and you can agree appropriate dates, please apply for funding. The application should take the form of a one-page A4 case for support.  This should: 

        	Outline the project, giving a justification for the work being undertaken by the student and how it will help to give them research experience.
	Provide a summary of how the student will benefit from the project with regard to their career objectives.
	Contain a summary of the student's academic performance in previous years.
	Outline arrangements for supervision.
	Specify the amount of subsistence expenses funding requested in weeks, plus the costs of any necessary software licences or other equipment that may be required.


        The case should be emailed to Chris Clack by 21 March 2017.  Decisions will be made shortly thereafter.  Late applications will be accepted but may not receive funding if it has already been allocated. 
 
        Successful applicants should subsequently liaise with Dawn Bailey and JJ Giwa to arrange for their student’s financial and space provisions, and put themselves in a position to deliver the necessary induction to the student on the first day (health and safety briefing etc). 
 
        Only a single internship application on behalf of a student should be made. This requires each supervisor to choose the most suitable student for that project. This also means that each student needs to decide which is the most suitable project (in agreement with the supervisor). 
 
        Funding decisions are made on the basis of the student’s past exam performance and the project’s value to the student. The highest ranked applications will be supported, subject to the availability of funds.  Supervisors will be notified shortly after the closing date for applications. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Research Group Bursaries 

        
 
         
         
        For projects wholly funded by the research group associated to the project, the student should contact the named researcher directly. In these cases, the research group should still make arrangements with Dawn Bailey and JJ Giwa for finance and space, informing Chris Clack, and taking note of UCL Internship Policy regarding the recruitment and management of interns.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Information regarding visiting students

        
 
         
         
        Staff can find details of this on the Intranet here.
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 15 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
