 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Dr Jade Alglave wins prestigious Royal Society award
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Dr Jade Alglave, Lecturer and member of the Programming Principles, Logic & Verification Research Group at UCL Computer Science, has been named as the winner of the Brian Mercer Award for Innovation by the Royal Society. 
 
         The award funds researchers to build on their concepts to bring new ideas to market, and aims to promote links between the academic community, business and industry. 
 
         Dr Alglave’s research into multiprocessor technology has led to the development of .cat, a standard verification format for hardware chips. 
 
         Multiprocessors by ARM, AMD, IBM, Intel, or NVidia are found in devices ranging from smartphones to supercomputers, cars to aeroplanes. Programming software to run on multiprocessors is a form of concurrent programming, where multiple computations are executed during overlapping time periods. Sadly, due to the great number of possibleoutcomes of a given program, concurrent programming is error prone and “buggy”, and difficult to test. 
 
         Dr Alglave has developed a tool to test and model proprietary hardware which ensures that software runs consistently across a range of platforms, reducing delays and costs caused by errors and inconsistencies. 
 
         Professor David Price, UCL Vice-Provost (Research) said: 
 
         <box class="indent"> 
 
         "I’d like to extend my congratulations to Dr Alglave for her award. Innovative research is at the heart of UCL and Dr Alglave’s work will enable the development of pioneering new technology." 
 
         </box> 
 
         Professor John Shaw Taylor, Head of UCL Computer Science said: 
 
         <box class="indent"> 
 
         "I am immensely proud of Jade and her success in ensuring her deep theoretical work and understanding is directed so precisely at a pressing problem facing the computer industry. This exactly aligns with our maxim of experimental computer science: fundamental work that addresses real-world problems and delivers practical solutions." 
 
         </box> 
 
         The Brian Mercer Awards were established in 2001 to support research into the built environment, clean technology and energy, electrotechnology and nanoscience.

         
          (The image is of two ponies. The pony on the left is computed with an Intel CPU and doesn’t look buggy, the one on the right is computed with an Nvidia GPU and looks buggy. This is because the one on the right is computed using an Octree that uses a message passing idiom. Images computed by Tyler Sorensen, UCL Computer Science.)

         
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 23 Feb 15 13:41 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Jan Kautz’s co-authored... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: *NEW* DUCO prizes for...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
