 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Dr Steve Hailes receives Engineering Engagement Outstanding Contribution Award
 
         
          
          Dr Steve Hailes

         
 
         Dr Steve Hailes (Department of Computer Science) has received the Outstanding Contribution Award at the Provost's Engineering Engagement Awards ceremony 
 
         Steve Hailes commented: "this is actually a result of teamwork. The department (and faculty) set out to be more proactive in engaging with the school community, and many people have bought into that and have put a lot of hard work into making it a success. There have been too many to name individually, but they range from those in my research group to the department's professional services staff, teaching staff and students. Most importantly, we've had consistent support from the departmental and faculty leadership and, tangibly, the foresight to invest the resources to make it happen - from Engduinos to staff. In particular, we've had the support of Elpida Makrygianni and Rae Harbird as a result of that investment, and they have been unstinting in their efforts and enthusiasm in making this a success." 
 
         The citation for Steve Hailes commends him for "... showing true leadership and excellence in his engagement with young audiences and for transforming lives of many young people across the UK, influencing the future of the coding curriculum; working with local councils, communities and government to change perceptions on computer science and engineering; developing innovative teaching resources and activities that promote creative and critical thinking. His dedication, hard-work and inspirational leadership have influenced staff and students in his department to develop and deliver numerous activities and teaching resources. He has significantly contributed to changing the stereotypical perceptions around STEM subjects in young people – especially girls and young women – their teachers and parents on a national scale." 
 
         There was success for three other members of the department:

         	Rae Harbird was a runner-up in the "Research/Academic Staff (Grade 6 & 7)" category;
	Laszlo De Brissac, was the winner in the "Undergraduate Student" category;
	Chaitanya Agrawal was one of the runners-up in the same category.

 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 19 May 15 14:54 
         
 
          
          
           Next: 1st yr undergrads at... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Dr Sarah Meiklejohn...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
