 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Dr Venus Shum featured in Royal Academy of Engineering teaching resource
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Dr Venus Shum, Senior Research Associate at UCL Computer Science, and member of UCL's world leading Human-Computer Interaction Centre (UCLIC) is featured in maths learning resources for teachers in secondary schools that have been developed by UCL’s London Knowledge Lab, the Royal Academy of Engineering and Cornerstone Maths.
 
         The new mathematics learning resource based on the Linear Function module of the Cornerstone Maths software, features profiles of real life app and game developers in order to highlight the links between maths and real-world coding and how coders, app developers and game designers use maths in their work and research. The resource will be distributed throughout the 28 Connecting STEM Teachers Networks across the UK as well as to over 400 schools. 
 
         Venus' work has incorporated the development of numerous devices. The Engduino was designed to be a teaching tool, originally for use at UCL with visiting schoolchildren. The Engduino is, at heart, an Arduino, and it is programmed using the Arduino IDE. The Arduino is a simple, cost-effective and flexible platform that can be used for a wide variety of tasks, particularly when coupled with the various shields that are available, or when connected to LEDs, buttons, etc. 
 
         CodeMe is another novel starter toolkit with a difference: fusing creativity and coding through a range of exciting and sometimes mysterious making and programing activities. CodeMe transforms programming into seamless creating and coding; for example, one minute you will be constructing a cube, the next making a pattern of LEDs light up while shaking the cube, the next watching an interconnected set of cubes placed in a room light up like a Mexican wave. 
 
         Venus' future work includes cutting edge wireless sensing networks to monitor air and sea pollution  levels, and wearable technologies to monitor heart rates of different people, including Olympic swimmers.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 03 May 16 08:54 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Professor Peter O’Hearn... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Athena SWAN Silver Award...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
