 
   
    
    
    Department of Computer Science
 
   
 
    
    
     
     
     
      
      
       
       
        
        
         
         
         
          
         	Home
	About us
	Athena Swan
	Grants
	Awards
	Picture Galleries
	Events
	News
	Subscribe
	Equalities
	Contact us

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         Tweets by @WomeninCSUCL 
          
          
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
          
          
           
          
           Emine Yilmaz awarded the Microsoft BCS Karen Sparck-Jones Award

          
 
           
           
           
            
           The panel was impressed by the body of Emine's research on evaluation techniques to better match the realities of modern information systems, in particular her work on missing user judgments, her proposed new metrics that are more robust to missing data and her work on expected browsing utility as a new evaluation metric derived from interaction patterns of real web search sessions. Her recent work focused on devising and evaluating the quality of task based information retrieval systems, retrieval systems that can help the user complete the task that have led them issue a query to a search engine, as opposed to just retrieving a list of documents relevant to the query submitted. The panel recognized that Emine's research has pushed the field of IR forward in these important aspects and that her work has had a high impact on academia and practice. 
 
           More details about the Award: 
 
           The British Computer Society Information Retrieval Specialist Group (BCS IRSG) in conjunction with the BCS created an award in 2008 to commemorate the achievements of Karen Spärck Jones.

           		Karen was a Professor Emerita of Computers and Information at the University of Cambridge and one of the most remarkable women in computer science. Her contributions to the fields of Information Retrieval (IR) and Natural Language Processing (NLP), especially with regard to experimentation, have been outstanding and highly influential. Karen's achievements resulted in her receiving a number of prestigious accolades such as the BCS Lovelace medal for her advancement in Information Systems, and the ACM Salton Award for her significant, sustained and continuing contributions to research in information retrieval.


 
           The IRSG is grateful to Microsoft Research for their sponsorship of the Karen Spärck-Jones award. 
 
           Sponsered by:
 

 
 
           Recipients of the Karen Spärck Jones award 2015
 
           In 2015, the award panel was highly impressed both by the quality and diversity of the field of candidates: it faced a hard time narrowing down the nominations to a short list. Even more so, it turned out the panel experienced a genuine difficulty of deciding between the two candidates who best matched the award criterion "To have endeavoured to advance our understanding of IR and/or NLP through experimentation." As a consequence, and unique to 2015, the panel decided to make two full awards. In alphabetical order:

Jordan Boyd-Graber
Assistant Professor, Computer Science Department
University of Colorado, USA

The panel recognised Jordan's technically strong and creative work on probabilistic topic models, in particular, how his work has shown that the semantic coherence of these topics can be systematically assessed, how linguistic knowledge such as word senses, syntactic relations and inter-language relationships can be incorporated - and crucially - how user feedback can easily and iteratively be integrated into learned topic models to improve the semantic coherence of the topics. The panel thought that Jordan has shaped our understanding of NLP in new and important ways through experimental machine learning research.

Jordan is going to give a keynote at ECIR 2016 on interactive machine learning for understanding large document collections. 

Emine Yilmaz
Lecturer, Department of Computer Science
University College London, UK

The panel was impressed by the body of Emine's research on evaluation techniques to better match the realities of modern information systems, in particular her work on missing user judgments, her proposed new metrics that are more robust to missing data and her work on expected browsing utility as a new evaluation metric derived from interaction patterns of real web search sessions. Her recent work focused on devising and evaluating the quality of task based information retrieval systems, retrieval systems that can help the user complete the task that have led them issue a query to a search engine, as opposed to just retrieving a list of documents relevant to the query submitted. The panel recognized that Emine's research has pushed the field of IR forward in these important aspects and that her work has had a high impact on academia and practice.

Emine is going to give a keynote at ECIR 2016 on a task-based perspective to Information Retrieval. 
 
           Recipient of the Karen Spärck Jones award 2014
 
           Ryen White
Senior Researcher at Microsoft Research
Redmond, USA 
 
           The award panel recognises that Ryen White has contributed in many layers to a better understanding of search interaction, eg, through novel and creative analyses of vital and as of yet unexplored aspects of searcher behavior closely coupled with the development of models and applications for improving the search experience. The panel was highly impressed by Ryen's academic output, many as leading or sole author, using experimental methods of large-scale log analyses, user studies and surveys. His sheer productivity, the take-up of his work in academia and a number of best paper awards at prestigious conferences including ACM SIGIR (3x), ACM CIKM, ACM SIGCHI and in JASIST speak for themselves. It is also a hallmark of Ryen's professional activity that he continued to serve the academic community though reviewing, track chairing and PC co-chairing at top conferences, editorial board memberships and guest editing while being a researcher in industry. 
 
           Ryen gave a keynote at ECIR 2015 on Mining and Modelling Online Health Search. The slides of his lecture are available here 
 
           Recipient of the 2013 award
 
           Eugene Agichtein 
Associate Professor 
Mathematics and Computer Science Department 
Emory University, Atlanta, USA  
 
           In making the BCS/ BCS IRSG Karen Spärck-Jones Award for 2013, the Panel strongly recognizes that Eugene Agichtein has made several important contributions in search and large scale web text data mining with a focus on user interaction data. Eugene's work has included demonstrating how models of human information interactions can be inferred by leveraging computational techniques on what are large-scale but also noisy behaviour records. His work has been very influential - the depth of which across several areas is impressive. 
 
           Eugene has focused on understanding and modelling user interaction in web search and collaborative question answering. For example, he has shown that click through and other forms of implicit feedback are useful for improving search results ranking when gathered across large numbers of users. This is one area of contribution where his work is seen as particularly influential. Eugene's work includes mouse movements and prediction of responses to advertising, and has reached out to other domains too. Overall, Eugene Agichtein's work is regarded as that of an excellent experimentalist that recognizes the critical linkages between information theory and experiment. 
 
           Eugene gave a keynote speech at ECIR 2014. 
 
           Recipient of the 2012 award
 
           Diane Kelly 
Associate Professor 
University of North Carolina, NC, USA  
 
           In making the BCS/ BCS IRSG Karen Spärck-Jones Award for 2012, the Panel strongly recognizes that Diane has made important contributions to:the analysis of information seeking behaviors, and to the development of new experimental methods and systems to support information seeking and analysis. 
 
           Diane has made several other important contributions to user modeling using implicit indicators of relevance, the development and analysis of interfaces to elicit richer statements of interest, and new methodologies for designing and evaluating interactive retrieval systems. Her strong user-oriented work views users-as-people with cognitive tasks. 
 
           Diane gave a keynote speech at ECIR 2013. The slides of her talk are available for download 
 
           No award was made in 2011
 
           Recipient of the 2010 award
 
           Evgeniy Gabrilovich 
Senior Research Scientist and Manager of the NLP & IR Group of Yahoo! Research, California, U.S. 

Evgeniy gave a keynote speech at ECIR 2011. The abstract of his talk and his bio is available. 
 
           Recipient of the 2009 award
 
           The first recipient of the KSJ award is 

Mirella Lapata 
Reader (Assoc Prof) 
School of Informatics 
University of Edinburgh 

Mirella's research has focused on various problems in NLP mostly with an emphasis on statistical methods and text generation applications. She has worked on complex problems like: word sense disambiguation, ambiguity resolution, semantic vector space, story generation, and many others.
 
            
          
 
           
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
        
          
        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
    	Disclaimer
	Freedom of Information
	Accessibility
	Privacy
	Cookies
	Advanced Search
	Contact Us

 
     Computer Science Department, University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT Tel: +44 (0) 20 3108 7001
 © UCL 1999–2015 
 
   
 
    
  
  
 
