 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3
      ›› Training ›› Exercise 3 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        TYPO3 Exercise 3 - Pages, properties and templates
 
        Just as content elements have properties so do pages . 
 
        Step 1
 
        In your editing window select the third sample page (click on the words Sample page 3 in the TYPO3 tree view). Start the page properties dialogue. You can do this either by clicking the   icon next to the page and selecting "Edit" or by clicking the icon near the top of the screen. 
 
        Step 2
 
        View the page as it currently is (click the  icon) then select the General tab and change the layout to Committee Minutes. View the result. 
 
        (Note that these layouts reflect the current UCL-CS styles. One advantage of TYPO3 is that we can make a global adjustment to styles without having to change individual pages.) 
 
        Step 3
 
        Create a new page after Sample page 3. To do this click the  icon next to Sample page 3 and select Page Actions then New. You should see something like the image below: 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Click on the arrow shown to crate a new page at the next level down. Give your new page a title then save it. 
 
        Step 4
 
        Create a Regular text element content element in your new page and open the Rich Text Editor. Cut and paste content from somewhere else - a Word document or another web page for example. Include images if you like. You may find that the format changes slightly after you save the page. This is because TYPO3 strips out what it considers to be undesirable formatting. 
 
        (You may find that the Cut and Paste does not work with Firefox using the left mouse button. There is a fix for this but, in any case, using Control-C for copy and Control-V for paste should work.) 
 
        Step 5 - Optional
 
        Sometimes it is useful to include an item in the TYPO3 page tree which is a link to somewhere else - for example to a page on the main UCL server. 
 
        Make one of your new pages a link to the UCL home page (http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk). Begin by opening the page properties dialogue for your new page and selecting the General tab. Change the Type of the page to Link to external URL. Now select the URL tab and enter the UCL URL then save. View the page to check the effect of what you have done. 
 
        You have now finished the TYPO3 training exercises. 
 
        Note that the training accounts are set up with a deliberately restricted set of features. When you login using your own TYPO3 account additional features may appear. You can find out more about these by looking at the TYPO3 help pages. 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
