 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3
      ›› Training ›› Exercise 1 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        TYPO3 Exercise 1 - Using the "Rich Text Editor"
 
        The TYPO3 "Rich Text Editor" (RTE) gives you a word-processor-like editor enabling you to edit and style text. 
 
        During the course of the exercise you will change the content of a sample page. You must save your changes regularly - if you navigate away from the RTE without saving then any changes you have made will be lost. 
 
        You can save your work at any point by clicking the icons that appear at the top of the RTE screen. Clicking on: 
 
         will save your changes; 
 
         will save your changes and launch a view of the page in a new window as it will appear to an ordinary web user; 
 
         will save your changes and leave the editor. 
 
        Begin the exercise by switching to your editing window and clicking on the on the words "Sample page 1"  which will open that page for editing (N.B. click the words, not the  icon to the left of the words as clicking the icon does something different!). 
 
        You should then see a screen like the one below. This shows a single TYPO3 content element - content elements contain the text and images that will appear in your web pages. 
 
        Now click on the  symbol above the content element in order edit it. (Strangely, the symbols only appear when you point at them!) Exercise 1 consists of editing this content element. It should be self explanatory. 
 
        Once you have finished it please move on to Exercise 2.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
