 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Prospective Students
      ›› PhD Programme ›› Facilities 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Facilities

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	Equipment and Computing Facilities


	Laboratories


	Virtual Stock Trading Floor


	The CAVE - Virtual Reality Room


	Additional UCL and University of London Facilities


          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Equipment and Computing Facilities

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           Located in the custom-built Malet Place Engineering Building in Bloomsbury, the department has its own dedicated support team and operates its own extensive and regularly updated computer system.  This system is a distributed workstation environment comprising of more than 500 workstations and servers connected through a series of 100/1000 Mbps, Ethernet-based, local area networks.  
           

           
Research students are allocated their own desk in one of the large, open plan offices for the period of their study and provided with computer facilities, with access to the department’s dedicated support team and extensive computer network.  
           

           
All facilities are accessible over the local area networks which in turn are connected to a UCL-wide, high bandwidth backbone network which supports wide-area video conferencing and data networks.  Computer science students also have access to the UCL central computer systems.  
          
 
          
 
          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Laboratories

        
 
         
         
        

        
         All of the workstations in our laboratories run SUN Solaris, Linux and Windows XP/7 and we offer 
         a virtual tour of one of our labs.  The workstations are supported by a series of powerful file-servers and compute-servers and students also have access to high-quality printing facilities.  
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Virtual Stock Trading Floor

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
            The department is home to 
           the largest Virtual Trading Floor in London, which recreates the excitement of a trading floor in an investment bank and provides invaluable hands-on experience in a dynamic environment. 
           
 
           Real-time data feeds from major exchanges are displayed on terminals and wall screens, and industry-standard software packages are used to provide the best possible introduction to Investment Banking IT.

          
 
          
 
          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The CAVE - Virtual Reality Room

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
            We also have specialised machines such as the SGI Prism computer, which is used to control a Trimension Systems ‘Reality Cube Tracked environment’, (
           Virtual Reality Room), and several clusters with a total of 320 processors.  
          

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Additional UCL and University of London Facilities

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

          
           
          

          
           UCL's Central London campus hosts a vast amount of facilities and resources for students including:
           

           	UCL Library - With over two million books, 15 specialist Libraries, (including the Science Library next door to the Department), UCL Library Services provides access to a vast range of resources across all degree subjects.


	Computer and IT Facilities - In addition to the computing facilities in the department, our students also have access to UCL main cluster rooms, wireless network, helpdesks, and 150+ generalist and specialist software packages.  


	Sports Facilities -The Bloomsbury Fitness Centre, located on the main campus, houses a variety of equipment – treadmills, cycle machines, crosstrainers, fixed resistance machines, for example – with places for 60 users at any one time. The centre also includes  two squash courts, a dance studio and martial arts Dojo and offers weekly fitness classes.  UCL also has outdoor pitches and courts in Shenley, Hertfordshire. With provision for rugby, football, netball, lacrosse and cricket, there is a free bus service on match days.


	Bloomsbury Theatre - UCL has it's own 530 capacity theatre which is owned and run by the university.  It hosts professional performances – often focusing on innovative and unusual productions – including stand-up comedy, drama, dance and music.  


	Museums - Our location in London is a 5 minute walk away from The British Museum, The Petrie Museum of Egyptian Archaeology, The Grant Museum of Zoology, as well as the UCL Geology Collection, the Institute of Archaeology Collection, the Galton Collection of scientific instruments, the Ethnographic Collections of material culture and the UCL Art Collections.


           As one of the founding members of the University of London, UCL students also have access to University of London Facilities such as:

           	ULU Student Union building , with it's shops, bars, cafes, and sports facilities including a 33m swimming pool, (30 seconds walk away).  


	Senate House University of London Library 


           

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Department of Computer Science, UCL (University College London)
 Malet Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK
 Phone: 020 7679 7214 (+44 20 7679 7214)
 Fax: 020 7387 1397 (+44 20 7387 1397) 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Research Student Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
