 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Prospective Students
      ›› PhD Programme ›› FAQs 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Frequently Asked Questions

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	What are the entrance requirements for the programme?


	Can I visit the department to see the facilities?


	Do you accept mature applicants?


	Do you accept visiting research students?


	Can you send me a brochure/prospectus/information pack for the programme?


	Can you send me an application form for the programme?


	What are the fees for the programme?


	Do you offer part-time courses?


	Will I have to pay the Home or Overseas tuition fee rate?


	Will I have to attend an interview as part of the admissions process?


	What happens if I get made an offer but I don't meet the conditions?


	Can I obtain a scholarship or assistantship or some other form of funding?


	What are the language requirements for the programme?


	When is the application deadline for the programme?


	I have the following qualifications: ... Will I be admitted to the programme?


	May I schedule an appointment with the programme coordinator to discuss my qualifications and interest in the programme?
	I am a keen cyclist. Are there showering facilities available around UCL?



          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What are the entrance requirements for the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

         
         
 
         See our Entry Requirements Page for further details.  

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Can I visit the department to see the facilities?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Yes, but please ring and check the availability of the programme administrator first.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Do you accept mature applicants?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Yes, there is no age discrimination.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Do you accept visiting research students?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Yes.  We accept visiting research students for a period of 3 to 12 months.  See our 
         Applying page for further information on Visiting Research Students. 
        
 
        
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Can you send me a brochure/prospectus/information pack for the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         You can view the prospectus/brochure at 
         www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/research/degrees/computer-science-mphil-phd
        
 
        
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Can you send me an application form for the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Applications for the PhD Computer Science are made through the 
         PRiSM online application system.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What are the fees for the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Further information on fees can be found on the 
         UCL Computer Science MPhil/PhD 
         Key Information page. 
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Do you offer part-time courses?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Our PhD programme can be taken on a part-time basis subject to the approval of the applicant’s potential supervisor.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Will I have to pay the Home or Overseas tuition fee rate?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Further information on tuition fees can be found at 
         www.ucl.ac.uk/current-students/money/fees-support/fee_status_proc
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Will I have to attend an interview as part of the admissions process?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Yes - this is outlined on our 
         Research Applications page.  
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What happens if I get made an offer but I don't meet the conditions?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         If it is the English requirements you have not met, then you have another chance to retake your English test.  If it is the academic requirements that you have not met, then we will terminate the offer.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Can I obtain a scholarship or assistantship or some other form of funding?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Yes - Funding is available for Home, EU, and overseas students and information can be found on our Scholarships pages.  Please note that competition is very strong for these places so you need to consider very carefully how you would fund yourself before applying.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What are the language requirements for the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         All students whose first language is not English must be able to provide recent evidence that their spoken and written command of the English language is adequate for the programme.  
         
 
         The required evidence may be one of the following:

         	Substantial education (minimum 12 months) or work experience (minimum 18 months) conducted in English in a majority English speaking country and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment.
	A recently obtained acceptable English language qualification or test result. The qualification or test result must have been awarded no more than two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment.


         UCL reserves the right, in individual circumstances, to specify an additional language requirement for an applicant. 
 
         Accepted documentation includes 
 
         GCSE English Language: 
Pass at grade C 
 
         IELTS: International English Language Testing System: 
Overall grade of 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in each of the subtests 
 
         Please be aware that English Language qualifications obtained from TOEFL are no longer accepted for prospective students wishing to start their studies in 2015 by UCL if the ETS TOEFL test was taken after 17th April 2014. If you have taken the TOEFL exam you are advised to take an alternative English Language qualification as your TOEFL results will not be accepted by the UKBA as they are no longer on the list of approved English language tests and providers. 
 
         Other English Language Qualifications: 
 
         Please see the main UCL English Language Requirements page for the full list of accepted English Language qualifications.  
 
 
         Please note that our courses require a level of English equivalent to the "UCL Standard Level".
 
         

         

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         When is the application deadline for the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         See our 
         Applying page for further details of the application deadlines.  
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         I have the following qualifications: ... Will I be admitted to the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         We must see a fully completed application form, including reference letters, transcript and statement of purpose, in order to make admissions decisions. We cannot make admissions decisions based on brief information supplied by email.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         May I schedule an appointment with the programme coordinator to discuss my qualifications and interest in the programme?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Unfortunately, due to the extremely high volume of applications received, it is impossible for the course coordinator to meet personally with each applicant.
        
 
        
 
         
       

       To top
 
        
        
        
         
        
         I am a keen cyclist. Are there showering facilities around UCL?

        
 
         
         
        Yes, there are. Information on showering facilities and other UCL environmental initiatives can be found on the UCL Green website.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Department of Computer Science, UCL (University College London)
 Malet Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK
 Phone: 020 7679 7214 (+44 20 7679 7214)
 Fax: 020 7387 1397 (+44 20 7387 1397) 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Research Student Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
