 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› MPhil/PhD ›› Form Templates 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Please find below all of the forms required for PhD studies in .doc format. 
 
        If you cannot find the form you need, or the form will not download, please email Sarah Turnbull at cs.researchdegrees@ucl.ac.uk 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        First Year Viva
 
        Submission form template 
 
        Assessor feedback template 
 
        You will need to submit a Report and summary form to your supervisor, assessment panel, the graduate tutor  and your administrator before the date of the viva. Once that is done, your assessment panel should complete the feedback form and send a copy to you and your administrator so that your progress can be noted. 
 
        Transfer Viva
 
        Submission form template 
 
        Assessor feedback template 
 
        As with your First Year viva, you will still have to submit a report and summary form a few weeks prior to the viva to your supervisor, assessment panel, the graduate tutor  and your administrator. After you have passed your viva, the examiners will need to provide a feedback form to you which will be used to process the change of registration form  -  this is very important  as without that you will not be swapped from MPhil to PhD so will not be allowed to go onto CRS or submit your final thesis. 
 
        Completing Research Status (CRS)
 
        CRS Transfer Request form 
 
        Extension to CRS Request 
 
        Once you have completed your transfer viva and 3 years of study, and you are just writing up your thesis before your submission, you are allowed up to one year of CRS.  The major benefit of CRS is that you do not need to pay any fees while you are on CRS. The downside is that you will no longer be entitled to a desk or any space at the Department. 
 
        Final Viva and Thesis submission
 
        Exam Entry Form 
 
        Examiner Nomination Form 
 
        Viva Guidance notes for students and examiners 
 
        Examiner Joint Report template 
 
        eThesis agreement 
 
        This is it. The end is in sight and you are almost there. As expected with the big one, there’s a fair amount more bureaucracy and admin involved, so here is a step-by-step guide: 
 
        1. Four months prior to submission of your thesis you and your supervisor will need to complete an Exam Entry Form and Examiner Nomination form. This can take a minimum of 4 weeks, so it is important that these are submitted early as if there are any queries on suitability then it can take up to 4 months. 
 
        2. Four weeks prior to the viva you will need to submit two softbound copies of your thesis to Student Records who will deliver it to your approved examiners. You must not, at any point prior to your viva, contact or speak to your examiners as this can compromise the integrity of the examination.  This includes emailing them to praise them or thank them for agreeing to act as an examiner (you laugh, it’s happened). 
 
        3. The day of the viva  you will have the option to allow your supervisor to attend, but they cannot advise you at all.  It will last around  2-3 hours and you are encouraged to enjoy it: this is your best opportunity to really discuss your work and research which you have carried out over the last 3-4 years; it can be intense, and scary (I won’t lie) but it can also be a wonderful opportunity to discuss your work with a relevant, highly esteemed, expert in your field of research. Once it’s over you will probably be told the result informally. Remember it is extremely rare for anyone to receive no corrections at all, so do not feel that you have failed if you do. 
 
        4. After the viva initially it is customary for you to celebrate in a nearby pub with your supervisor and friends ,  regardless of the outcome. After that, if you are in the majority, you will need to submit corrections to the nominated checker (usually the internal examiner or your supervisor) who will notify registry that your corrections have been accepted. 
 
        5. Final submission and award will require you to submit an e-thesis agreement and copies of your thesis. You are normally awarded at the end of the calendar month, but the ceremony may not take  place until the following September, or the one after that if you submit May or later that year. You will be able to use “Dr” from the award date, the ceremony is really that, not the actual award. 
 
        Additional information can be found here: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/research-degrees/supervisor-guidance/examiner-nominations#top 
 
        Supervisor Meeting Log 
 
        Meeting Log Form 
 
        With effect from the 19th October, new regulations have been put in place requesting that all  students must now confirm their engagement with the course at least once per month. This is a requirement by UCL that all students have a minimum of 1 meeting per month with either or both of their supervisors, of which no two consequent meetings can be on the phone/skype or email. This means that at least every other month there must be face to face meetings of some sort. 
 
        Students are asked to please complete the form each month and return to Sarah Turnbull at 1.04A 66-72 Gower Street, or her pigeon hole in MPEB, or by email, s.turnbull@ucl.ac.uk 
 
        **If you are unable to attend a meeting at any point within a given month, please email Sarah Turnbull with details, take an interruption or study leave to avoid being marked as AWOL**
 
        Interruption request
 
        Interruption Request form 
 
        It is recommended that you apply for an interruption if you are unable to research or work for any length of time. During a period of interruption you will not incur any fees and you will not be expected to progress towards submission of your thesis. Interruptions will push back your deadlines for vivas, submissions and minimum registration, effectively a "stop the clock" for up to 1 year. 
 
        Study Leave
 
        Study Leave Request form 
 
         This is where you are going to go study somewhere else. During this time you should remain in contact with your supervisor and continue to progress towards your submission. Your deadlines will not be adjusted for this kind of leave, but your fees will be reduced during this period. More information about the T's and C's of Study Leave can be found on the the UCL student registry's webpage.  
 
        
 
 
         
 
        Conference Funding Request Form
 
        Conference Funding request form 
 
        More information about this can be found on our Travel Blog 
 
        Withdrawal of study
 
        We hope that you will not need to withdraw, but sometimes it is the best option and we will respect that decision. There is no form for this, all you need to do is email your Administrator and let them know your last date of attendance and reason for withdrawal. You will be welcome to reapply if you would like to come back, but unfortunately at that point you will be no longer officially a UCL student. 
 
        Other forms related to PhD things 
 
        (these are mostly for supervisors) 
 
        Interview feedback 
 
        Offer form
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 12 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Research Student Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
