 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Fugue installation featured at "Risk inSight"
 
         
          
          Gordana Novakovic with the Fugue exhibit

          
          A Fugue image

         
 
         The Risk inSight project exhibition took place at the Rolex Centre in Lausanne during October . "Combining science, arts and society, the Risk inSight exhibition aims to show risks and to highlight why and how they are playing an increasingly important role in modern societies. The exhibition space is divided into four thematic sections: identifying risks, living with risks, debating risks and handling risks." 
 
         The Fugue project, which is led by UCL-CS's Artist in Residence - Gordana Novakovic, was invited to contribute to this large scale open-to-public science and art exhibition.  
 
         Writing of the Fugue exhibit, Gordana says, "Life is full of risks, and in spite of modern medicine, around 25% of Earth’s inhabitants die from bacterial or virus infections. “Fugue” is inspired by our main defence against this fate, the immune system. At the heart of the piece is a complex piece of scientific software, an artificial immune system algorithm, which accurately mimics the cascading responses to infection of the human immune system. No two responses will ever be the same, and the time scale and outcome of the struggle is always unpredictable. However, “Fugue” does not just display what could be seen under a microscope. Instead, the artists have transformed the data generated by the artificial immune system into symbols that express the dynamics and the rhythm of the biological processes. It is entitled “Fugue” because the artists found inspiration in the resemblance between the complexities of the immune system and the complexities of the musical form fugue. While the visuals reflect one view of events in the underlying immune system when it is infected by an artificial virus, the sound reflects another, and always in a new and unpredictable way. Please watch and listen, and become attuned to the processes and rhythms that are mirroring what might be happening right now, inside your own body."
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 24 Oct 12 10:01 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL at Droidcon >

          
 
          
           < Previous: First micro-structure...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
