 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Fully-funded PhD scholarships in digital health & wellbeing
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Applications are invited from prospective PhD students and UCL staff for three-year fully funded PhD scholarships in digital health and wellbeing. Students may be based in any academic discipline, such as computer science, behaviour science and human-computer interaction. 
 
         Bupa Global Institute for Digital Health Excellence(GLIDHE) is a new partnership between UCL and Bupa, established to develop digital health enabled solutions, evidenced by research. 
 
         The Institute will focus on the development of predictive techniques for behaviour change that are sustainable, to reduce the global burden of increasing healthcare demand. 
 
         This partnership represents a unique opportunity to significantly augment evidence and delivery with both world leading academic institutions and a global health organisation to be thought leaders in digital health. 
 
         With the exponential growth in digital engagement, GLIDHE can leverage academic insight and credibility to evidence behaviour change at both the individual and population levels delivering solutions that will scale, be robust and above all, affordable. 
 
         GLIDHE will develop and disseminate an integrated suite of personalised digital behaviour change products, aimed at improving health and wellbeing using up-to-date evidence, state-of-the-art technology and appropriate theories from behaviour and computer science. 
 
         Being part of GLIDHE is an opportunity to build a community to generate exciting new ideas in digital health and wellbeing, to improve the health of the world. 
 
         Please email expressions of interest in a PhD scholarship to: Lesley Payne, GLIDHE Lead lesley.payne@glidhe.org  
 
         Useful Links

         	Bupa Global Institute for Digital Health Excellence 

 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 25 Mar 15 10:06 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Students take part in... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Interaction Centre...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
