 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Degree Programme
      ›› First Year ›› General Information 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Welcome to UCL Computer Science

        
 
         
         
        First of all, many congratulations! You have overcome considerable competition to be selected for UCL Computer Science. This means that you are talented individuals with good A level results or their equivalent, who we believe have the potential to succeed at a challenging and worthwhile programme of study.  
 
        You are about to start an exciting and exacting journey – one in which self-motivation and self-discovery are as important as raw talent. We believe that learning is an active process – one in which you must take the lead; this alone makes the culture quite distinct to that you have experienced at school. You are free to make your own choices; those who freely choose to work, to research, to learn will be rewarded – and these are the people we want to see as UCL graduates. 
 
        Our expectations are simple. We expect you to put commitment and passion into this course and into your options; it will be sufficiently difficult that being passive recipients of ‘knowledge’ that you then learn and reproduce is no longer enough. We will NOT hand everything to you on a plate; we will provide you opportunities to learn for yourselves, to discuss problems, and to work hard, and we will support you in this process. Those that follow this path will have proved themselves as talented people who can carry that talent through into real achievement. 
 
        Those of you on the BSc and MEng Computer Science programmes will be embarking on the Engineering Faculty Integrated Engineering Programme, better known as the IEP. As well as studying to be a computer scientist you will also be learning to think and work as an Engineer. An Engineer has to know how to take mathematical, scientific, and in your case  computer science knowledge, and apply them to solving practical problems by designing and building working solutions for real people. In addition, you need to learn how to work with engineers from other engineering subject areas in interdisciplinary teams. From day one of teaching you will be working with students from all departments within the Faculty towards this goal. 
 
        The MEng Mathematical Computation, in contrast, is focussed on a deeper exploration into the worlds of mathematics and theoretical computer science. You will learn how to model and analyse systems from a mathematical perspective, and gain insight into how the theoretical underpinnings of computer science lead to the development of complex algorithms, machine learning, and the ability to systematically model and understand complex systems. 
 
        If, at any point, you are experiencing difficulties, then we want to know about them, preferably before they become real problems. UCL, and the department, has support available for both academic and personal problems. 
 
        If you are unsure who to contact, please ask the Undergraduate Administrator, or the Departmental Tutor, Dr Graham Roberts. 
 
        To raise an issue to be discussed at the Staff-Student Consultative Committee, please contact
your programme representatives.

 
 
        Useful Information

        	Integrated Engineering Programme (IEP)
	Timetable of Undergraduate Induction Activities
	Slides from Welcome Talk
	Introduction to the Student Computing Facilities in the Department
	Slides from Introduction to Computing Facilities lecture
	UCL A-Z Guide for Students

 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Steve Marchant 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
