 
   
    
    
    Department of Computer Science
 
   
 
    
    
     
     
     
      
      
       
       
        
        
         
         
         
          
         	Home
	About us
	Athena Swan
	Grants
	Awards
	Picture Galleries
	Events
	News
	Subscribe
	Equalities
	Contact us

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         Tweets by @WomeninCSUCL 
          
          
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
          
          
           
          
           Grants & Awards

          
 
           
           
           
            
           To support our aims, WICS has funding available for female students and staff to attend conferences.  There are also grants available from external bodies which the Department can support.  We've identified some here which we think are particularly interesting. 
 
           If you are interested, please contact JJ Giwa-Majekodunmi 020 3108 7001.  We will support your application, fund some or all of the travel and accommodation expenses.  In return we would like feedback on your experience, what you learned.  You should be coming back full of ideas to motivate your peers and telling us of new ways in which we can achieve our aims! 
 
           
 
           
            
		ACM - Woman Scholarship

 
           
 ACM-W provide support for women undergraduate and graduate students in Computer Science to attend research conferences.  This exposure to the CS research world can encourage a student to continue on to the next level (Undergraduate to Graduate, Masters to Ph.D., Ph.D. to an industry or academic position). The student does not have to present a paper at the conference she attends.
           
 If the award is for one of the ACM Special Interest Group (SIG-) complementary registration and a mentor are provided during the conference.
           
 
           
Scholarships applications are evaluated 6 times a year, and typically you need to apply 2-3 months in advance of the conference you wish to attend.
           
 
           
E.g. apply by April 15th for June & July, by June 15th for Aug & Sept. 
           Details 
           
 
           
            
		Grace Hopper Celebration

 Description: The Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing is the World's Largest Gathering of Women Technologists.  It is produced by the Anita Borg Institute and presented in partnership with ACM.  Rae Harbid attended 
           2006 (review), and since then it's grown, with over 
           4700 attendees in 2013.  The Anita Borg Institute has a 
           GHC Scholarship grant, for which the Department will support your application.  
           September update: Registration is now closed, but there are plans to livestream the event. Visit http://gracehopper.org/ or follow @anitaborg_org on twitter for more info. This year’s conference will focus on key areas where emerging technologies are having a dramatic impact and will have the following session tracks: 
           	Software Engineering

 
           	Human Computer Interaction (HCI)

 
           	Data Science

 
           	Security/Privacy

 
           	Gaming/Computer Graphics/Animation (GFX)

 
           	Internet of Things/Wearable Computing

 
           	Faculty

 
           	Career

 
           	Grace Hopper Student Opportunity Lab

 
           	General Poster Session and ACM Student Research Competition

 
           
 
           		BCS Lovelace Colloquium 

 
           	To provide a forum for undergraduate women and masters students to share their ideas and network

 
           	To provide a stimulating series of talks from women in computing, both from academia and industry

 
           	To provide both formal (talks) and informal (networking) advice to undergraduate women about careers in computing from a female perspective

 
           	
	

 The BCSWomen Lovelace Colloquium is an annual one day conference for women students of Computing and related subjects.   The aims of this event are: The event started in 2008, and moves around the country - in 2014, it was held at 
           Reading University, and the 2015 event was in Edinburgh, on the 9th April.   Please see new "Call for Abstracts" below: 
           BCSWomen Lovelace Colloquium 2016: Call for abstracts
http://www.aber.ac.uk/en/cs/engagement/lovelace-colloquium/colloquium2016/abstracts/
 
 
           	
               
            

 Follow @bcswomen for information nearer the time.  

            
            
          
 
           
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
        
          
        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
    	Disclaimer
	Freedom of Information
	Accessibility
	Privacy
	Cookies
	Advanced Search
	Contact Us

 
     Computer Science Department, University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT Tel: +44 (0) 20 3108 7001
 © UCL 1999–2015 
 
   
 
    
  
  
 
