 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Hackin' the City
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Organised by the UCL Financial Industry Series, this year's Hackin' the City Winter Hackathon took place at Level39 Technology Accelerator in Canary Wharf. It provided a platform for the brightest Computer Science students in the country to pit their skills against each other in a round the clock Hackathon. A total of 32 students attended, including students from UCL, London School of 
 
         Economics, Newcastle University, Royal Holloway, Kings College London, and Imperial College London. We had a diverse selection of contestants from a range of academic backgrounds such as Computer Science, Physics, Mathematics and Finance, as well as a proportionate share of undergraduates and postgraduates, 20% of which were women. 
 
         The theme of the event was "Workplace Optimization" where the 7 teams brainstormed and designed software solutions to make the workplace more efficient. The atmosphere in the room 
 
         remained electric for the entire duration of the event with every team showing an impressive group dynamics despite the fact that many developers had signed up as individuals and were strangers to each other at the start of the event. The ability to work sufficiently well with a team so as to take an idea and develop it to completion in the space of 24 hours was both rare and admirable and it was 
 
         therefore pleasing to see every team succeed in this regard. Each team came up with excellent ideas, that they developed with the help of RBS mentors. 
 
         The event was judged in two rounds. The preliminary round was held at 11am on Sunday where each team pitched their idea to a panel of judges including Nasir Zubairi "Business Mentor of the Year", New Buckland; Nicholas Steiner, creative entrepreneur; Michail Michalakopoulos, PhD RBS Global Banking & Markets. 
 
         They had 5 minutes to pitch their idea which was followed by 5 minutes of questions from the judges. The teams pitched their ideas with fervour and conviction, impressing the judges who gave feedback on their ideas. Three finalist teams proceeded to the second round which was identical to the first but had new judges, including Prof Stephen Weston, Chief Development Officer, Maxeler 
 
         Technologies; Stefano Tresca, Partner iSeed; Daniel Schaller RBS Markets & Investment Banking and Axel Katalan Level39 Head of Community. 
 
         The winners were: 
 
         1st Place: Team Kudos, whose idea was to allow individuals to give "kudos" to colleagues for doing them favours in a work context, fostering collaboration. 
 
         2nd Place: Team Float, who built a virtual office leveraging on real time and continuous video communication, aiming to improve communication in the work place. 
 
         3rd Place: Team Trackers, who built a mood tracker application, which tracked the mood of employees over the day, aiming to improve productivity. 
 
         Overall, the event was a great success with great teams and projects built, some of which look to be continuing well beyond the Hackathon, having already intrigued more than one investor.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 11 Dec 13 09:06 
         
 
          
          
           Next: £2.8million funding... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: CS EngD VEIV Student...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
