 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students ›› Have Your Say 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Have Your Say

        
 
         
         
        There are many different ways for students to engage with the department as members of the Computer Science community. We strongly encourage all students to become active participants in the department's activities, and in particular take the opportunity to voice their views and feedback on their learning experience.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Become a Student Academic Representative (StAR)

        
 
         
         
        Student Academic Representatives (StARs) are elected at the start of each year to represent the views of their classmates. The main forum for this is the Staff-Student Consultative Committee meeting which the department holds each term. Student representatives are also invited to sit on the Departmental Teaching Committee (DTC). 
 
        UCLU provides additional information for StARs, including training, networking opportunities and resources.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Staff Office Hours

        
 
         
         
        All Programme Directors and Module Leaders will keep an office hour during term time and over the examination period. Students are very welcome to drop in on staff during their office hours if there is anything they would like to discuss. This is also available as a published Google Sheet. 
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Head of Department ‘Open Hour’

        
 
         
         
         Computer Science offers students a weekly open hour with the Head or Deputy Heads of Department. This is the chance for students to informally speak to a senior member of staff about any concerns or issues they may be experiencing. Students are welcome to attend without appointment. The open hour schedule for 2016-17 below. This is also available as a published Google Sheet. 
 
        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Module Feedback

        
 
         
         
        Towards the end of each term we will ask you to (anonymously) complete Module Feedback Questionnaires on each of the modules you took. The responses are analysed and the findings are discussed at SSCC and DTC meetings.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Programme Feedback

        
 
         
         
        Questionnaires are also sent out to all students at the end of their programme and the issues raised there are discussed at the Departmental Teaching Committee and the DSSCC.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Annual Student Experience Review (ASER)

        
 
         
         
        UCL departments review their teaching and student arrangements on an annual basis, so that they can check that programmes, modules and student-facing arrangements are running well, and take action where necessary. The process involves feedback from our students, the NSS, staff and External Examiners. The resulting reports (the ASER - Annual Student Experience Review) are discussed at our DSSCC and Departmental Teaching Committee meetings. ASER reports relating to 2014/15 will be available here once approved by UCL

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         National Student Survey (NSS)

        
 
         
         
        The National Student Survey is completed by undergraduate students in the final year of their programme. The 2016 survey will be open from January 2016. 
 
        Some key points about the survey:

        	We will be seeking honest feedback from students in order to help identify good practice, and highlight areas of concern. The survey should take about five minutes to complete and we really value the feedback received.


        	The results of the survey help inform future students in choosing universities and courses and form part of the Key Information Set, which is published in university prospectuses.
	UCL also uses the results along with other student feedback, to inform strategy and enhance the student experience. Previous feedback has helped inform extended opening hours in the library and improvements to pastoral care for students (including enhanced Personal Tutor arrangements).
	Results are fed back to departments and faculties and considered by senior management and the main UCL academic committees.
	The NSS is run by Ipsos MORI (the opinion pollsters) and is most easily completed online - students may also be telephoned or invited to complete by post.
	The NSS has 23 questions, using a scale from 1 (the lowest) to 5 (the highest) and you can also comment on your experience, both positive and negative.
	You can use a non-applicable response for any questions that do not apply to you.
	You may opt out - please go to the NSS website if you wish to do so.


        The feedback from this survey is also discussed at SSCC and DTC meetings. You can view the UCL CS Profile (inc NSS Results), on Unistats Website

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 08 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Chris Neil 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
