 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students ›› Help and Guidance 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	Accommodation
	Advisors to Women Students
	Centre for the Advancement of Learning & Teaching (CALT)
	Computer Science Reception Desk 
	CS Technical Support Helpdesk
	Day Nursery
	Equal Opportunity Issues
	Financial Support Pages for Students
	Information for International Students
	Legal and Financial advice
	Loans and Bursaries
	National Health Service General Practice
	Opening a Bank Account (International Students)
	Student Psychological Service
	Student Support and Wellbeing
	Teaching Support
	UCL Careers Service
	UCL Disability Services
	UCL Union Advice Services
	Useful Contacts in the Computer Science Department



          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Accommodation

        
 
         
         
        Although UCL is well provided with student accommodation there is never enough.  If you are in difficulties please make sure you discuss your situation with the Accommodation Office (117 Gower Street, email: residences@ucl.ac.uk). Please remember to update PORTICO with your new address and contact numbers.  
 
        Note that you may also get assistance from the University of London Accommodation office in Senate House, Malet Street (020 7862 8880, email: housing@lon.ac.uk, http://www.housing.lon.ac.uk). 
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Advisers to women students, and other equality and diversity advice, support and information

        
 
         
         
        UCL provides support, information and advice on matters including race, gender, religion, belief, sexual orientation, and disability. The UCL Equalities website (for students as well as staff) is at www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/equalities/. For quick links to the key people who can help, please go to www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/equalities/contacts/   
 
        Within the Department of Computer Science itself, Professor Zhaoping Li (x32850) is the Women in CS co-ordinator, with the remit of encouraging and supporting women staff and students. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Centre for the Advancement of Learning and Teaching (CALT)

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Centre for the Advancement of Learning and Teaching (CALT) has resources in their teaching and learning portal to help students improve their academic writing. 
 
        CALT also run research skills modules (EDUCGE01 Investigating Research and EDUCGE02 Researcher Professional Development) which are taken by student on MRes programmes in the department.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science Reception Desk 

        
 
         
         
        The Reception Desk and Departmental Office staff on the 5th floor of the Malet Place Engineering Building (MPEB) can help with most day-to-day departmental queries. Opening hours are 09:30-17:00, Mon-Fri. See below for the Technical Support Helpdesk.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         CS Technical Support Helpdesk

        
 
         
         
        The Technical Support Helpdesk deals with Software, Hardware, Networking and Licencing Issues.  

        	Opening Hours are 9.30am-5pm Mon-Fri. (term time) 11:00am-3pm (out of term) 
	Telephone: 020 7679 7280 (or ext 37280) 
	Email: request@cs.ucl.ac.uk. This will automatically create a trouble ticket. You can also check the status of your request.


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Day Nursery

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Day Nursery is at 50-51 Gordon Square, telephone number 020 7679 7461. For general information about the nursery ask for the Nursery Manager.  The Nursery is open to children from three months to five years old.  The waiting list can be long and fees are in line with nurseries elsewhere in London.  Limited help is available to a few students each year from the Day Nursery Hardship Fund; information can also be obtained from the Rights & Advice Centre.  

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Equal Opportunity Issues

        
 
         
         
        The Departmental Equal Opportunities Liaison Officers (DEOLO) are: JJ Giwa and Graham Roberts 
 
        These people: 

        	are the first point of contact for personal equal opportunities issues within your department;
	are a local resource within your department to whom staff and students can come for information and advice, distributing and drawing attention to new equality developments and legislative change and ensuring staff and students are conversant with UCL's EO policies and procedures;
	help the Head of Department with the implementation of UCLs Equal Opportunities Policies and practice at a departmental level;
	liaise with the Head of Department about implementation of equal opportunity good practice within the department and corporately;
	provide valuable feedback about equal opportunity implementation at a departmental level, on any specific issues, problems or successes within your department;
	are good listeners, with flexible, non judgemental attitudes to differing perspectives;
	will respect your confidentiality.


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Financial Support Pages for Students

        
 
         
         
        UCL has dedicated pages for students needing advice on Student Funding, Loans, Tuition Fee Status and Financial Support. 
 
        In particular the Student Funding Welfare Adviser offers advice on a range of issues including budgeting your money, banks accounts, hardship fund, access to learning fund, student loan company funding, loans, bursaries and more. The Student Funding Team offers a drop-in counter service which operates from G19 of the South Wing, Mon –Fri 10am-4pm. You can emil the student funding team on studentfunding@ucl.ac.uk

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Information for International Students

        
 
         
         
        UCL has created some specific resources to help and advise international students, including information on welfare and support and immigration and visas.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Legal and Financial advice

        
 
         
         
        Legal and financial advice, including advice on housing and immigration, is available through the UCL Union.  Initial contact should be to the Rights and Advice Centre on the first floor of the Bloomsbury Building.  If necessary an appointment can be made for you to see a solicitor.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Loans and Bursaries

        
 
         
         
        The Student Finance Section will be able to advise students on possible sources of assistance, such as loans, bursaries, hardship funds, grants and general finance information, both within and outside the College.  Help is also available from the Dean of Students Office and the welfare section of the UCL Union. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         National Health Service General Practice

        
 
         
         
        A National Health Service General Practice providing a full range of NHS services can be found at 3 Gower Place.   You should consult the practice website for the various rules and regulations concerning registration and payment (do make sure you register if you need the service).  

        	The practice provides a 24-hour service and home visits if needed. 
	The practice phone number is 020 7387 6306. 


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Opening a Bank Account (International Students Only)

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Prospective Student Webpages have comprehensive advice for international students who need to open a bank account whilst in the UK.  

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Student Psychological Service

        
 
         
         
        The Psychological Service is based on the 1st floor of 3 Taviton Street. 

        	Counselling is available, by appointment, between 09.30am-5.30pm. 
	Phone (020 7679 1487) for an appointment. 
	Meetings last about one hour and are in complete confidence.


        The counsellors are available for consultation by students with any emotional, personal, social, sexual, domestic or study problems. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Student Support and Wellbeing

        
 
         
         
        UCL Student Support and Wellbeing Services (SSW) provides information, advice and welfare support for all registered students. Services include; International Student Support and Welfare, UCL Student Disability Services and UCL Student Psychological Services. SSW is also the contact and coordination point for the chaplains appointed to UCL. 
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Teaching Support

        
 
         
         
        	The Undergraduate Departmental Tutor


        

        
         The Departmental Tutor looks after all aspects of undergraduate student welfare, so if you have any problems make an appointment to see the tutor. Appointments are usually made by email for one of the tutor's office hours, which will be advertised when at the start of term.  
         
 
         The current tutor is Dr. Graham Roberts, room 5.07a, email g.roberts@cs.ucl.ac.uk, phone 020 767 3711 (x33711). For minor issues or when Graham is not in his office you should see the Undergraduate Administrator in room 5.22. The Administrator may be able to deal directly with your problem and can tell you the best way to proceed.

        

        

        	Postgraduates


        

        
         MSc students should contact their respective Programme Director in the first instance, or the Postgraduate Programme Administrator in room 5.22 if the director is not available.
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Careers Service

        
 
         
         
        http://www.ucl.ac.uk/careers/The Careers Service gives comprehensive advice on all aspects of career development including vacation work, changing modules and future study.  They run training courses on a variety of career options and provide information packs on interview skills and compiling CVs.  

        	They are based on the 4th floor of the ULU Building Malet Street. 
	Telephone number 020 7866 3600. 
	You can make an appointment with a careers advisor if you want further advice on the next step after UCL. 


        Dr Chris Clack is the Departmental Careers Tutor and can also offer careers advice.  Chris can be contacted by email: C.Clack@ucl.ac.uk. He also maintains the department's Careers webpages, with a host of useful information and details of events and vacancies, is at http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/careers.html

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Disability Services

        
 
         
         
        Student Disability Services can be found in room G16, South Wing.  The team are available to assist with a range of enquiries regarding disability issues at UCL. Call 020 7679 0100, or email: disability@ucl.ac.uk 
 
        Special arrangements for examinations. 
 
        If you have a disability, dyslexia or health issue, you may be entitled to extra time, rest breaks and/or to sit in one of the special examination facilities. To find out if you are eligible for special assessment arrangements you must either undergo a UCL diagnostic assessment (for dyslexia) or submit an application form with supporting medical evidence(for all other medical conditions) at least six weeks before your first examination. See the disability services website for further details: 
 
        http://www.ucl.ac.uk/disability/special-examination-arrangements 
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Union Advice Services

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Union Advice Services provide a whole range of help and advice: housing, finance, legal insurance, travel accommodation, and so on. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Useful Contacts in the Computer Science Department

        
 
         
         
        A list of key people and their roles can be found here 
 
        Alternatively see the Full Staff List. 

        
 
         
       

       To top
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Tracy Williams 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
