 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         How hackers handle stolen login data
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Computer Science Research Student Jeremiah Onaolapo and colleagues from UCL's Information Security Research Group decided to find out how quickly criminals react once they get access to an online account. 
 
         The team set up 100 Gmail accounts and then accidentally-on-purpose shared their login credentials on forums and sites that data traders are known to frequent. The accounts were made to look "live" by having message threads, alerts and updates flow through them. They were also surreptitiously locked down to limit abuse.
 
         Jeremiah Onaolapo was sure the webmail accounts would be tempting because of the way people use them. More often than not, he said, they have data from other accounts, such as bank details, passing through them. "It's information that can be used for ID theft," he said.
 
         They did indeed prove tempting. By the end of the study, 90 of the accounts had been visited by people who were not their rightful owner. "Judging by the activity on the accounts, I would say that the majority of the visitors did not know they were faked," he said.
 
         What was surprising, he said, was that the cyberthieves did not instantly take over and ransack the accounts for saleable data. Instead, he said, there was initial activity by "curious" people who checked that the login details worked and that the account was live. And then it went quiet.
 
         "For some of the accounts, where someone checked them, we did not see any more activity for some time," he said. As far as he could tell, the accounts were being monitored to let thieves assess the value of the information flowing through them.
 
         "If they find they are not valuable they do not get accessed again," he said. "For them, there's no point."
 
         Read the full story on the BBC's Technology News website at http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-37510501 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 17 Oct 16 13:46 
         
 
          
          
           Next: AI predicts outcome of... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCLB spinout SmartTarget...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
