 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         IBM Hackathon for UCL Computer Science students
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The IBM Tivoli Development team ran IBM’s first hackday with UCL students on 2 April in the IBM Client Centre at the IBM offices on the South Bank. 11 UCL students with little previous exposure to the complexities of managing a large IT infrastructure competed to create a working prototype solution to visualize enterprise management data in 6 under hours. 
 
         The briefing 
 
         One week prior to the event IBM volunteers presented at UCL on the challenges enterprises face in managing IT infrastructures due to the constantly increasing amounts of data and connectivity. The IBM team explaned how these challenges are addressed using the Netcool OMNIbus product suite. The briefing also covered how to access the data using the HTTP and JSON APIs provided in the latest release of OMNIbus. 
 
         The challenge 
 
         The IBM volunteers set up a 'live' simulation of a multi-national IT infrastructure management system. The UCL students were challenged to provide an intuitive way of summarising whether individual geographies were meeting their service level agreements. 
 
         On the day 
 
         Participants ranged in experience from first year undergraduates to PhD and 
 
         masters students. They chose to integrate cloud based geo-mapping and charting technologies with the OMNIbus server to visualise the spread of events. 
 
         The students enjoyed their day at IBM and got an insight into applying technologies to resolve the challenges faced by large organisations. The IBM team was very impressed by the quality of the students’ work and their professionalism and team-working skills, and also got an insight into how the next generation of programmers will interact with current enterprise management systems. 
 
         A big thank you to the IBM employees who made it happen- Simon Knights, Jonathan Settle, Graham Rose and Reza Hazemi.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 23 Apr 14 12:40 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Project paper wins prize... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Undergraduate Research...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
