 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Imagine Cup 2013 world finals takes place in St Petersburg
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The Imagine Cup worldwide finals 2013 was held in St Petersburg, Russia. 
 
         300 of the brightest students from 70 countries worldwide attended, with backgrounds in software engineering and CS, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering and other disciplines. They presented viva-style presentations and live demos to a panel of international judges. 
 
         From University College London, our own Dr Dean Mohamedally attended as a judge in the World Citizenship Category. He writes: 
 
         "The ambition and motivation of these students to build not just the next big thing but to solve a real-world problem was amazing to witness. 
 
         I had the privilege to work alongside Bill Buxton, Principal Researcher for Microsoft Research, amongst other senior members from the Xbox team, Skype, Facebook and other leading organisations. Though students were evidently nervous, they got this far from their own local country competitions to stand on a world stage. The presentation ceremony and awards was presented by Matt Smith (Dr Who!) in the heart of St Petersburg, which was filmed and livecast. 
 
         In our World Citizenship category the winners were: a direct impact service to food distribution in poverty-stricken areas (3rd-Australia team), hearing loss filtering to be embedded in media devices (2nd-Taiwan team) and a mobile device for blood-type scanning and analysis (1st-Portugal team, 50,000 Euros). The combination of good theory review, eliciting clear requirements, examining project data to refine accuracy in development and testing, listening to peers outside of the field and collaborating across disciplines and finally pushing to reach market attention made these clear winners". Also we were especially proud to see the UK team win first prize (50,000 Euros) in their Innovation category up against other countries - go team GB! 
 
         UCL Faculty of Engineering looks forward to our students participating in the next Imagine Cup 2014 - the finals will be next hosted at Microsoft HQ in Redmond, Seattle! 
 
         Students can contact us for more details if they have a project idea that they would like to get started on!
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 16 Jul 13 10:05 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL-CS announce new DUCO... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Sebastian Riedel wins...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
