 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Careers ›› Information for Employers 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Information for employers

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Advertising positions to our students

        
 
         
         
        We are happy to promote paid job, graduate schemes and internship opportunities to our students.  We recommend employers use UCL Jobline to do this. Jobonline is an online job board where employers can post vacancies for free where the job listing is under 25 words (to get a listing under 25 words employers are encouraged to add a link to their website with a more detailed description of the role).
 
        Employers may also upgrade the listing to include a full description of the company and opportunities available for a cost of £154 + VAT. More details about Jobonline can be found here https://www.ucl.ac.uk/careers/recruiters/recruit/jobonline
 
        Once employers have posted a listing they will receive a confirmation email along with a link to the live post. If employers would like us to further promote these opportunities to UCL Engineering and the Department of Computer Science then please email this link to Kathryn Goodfellow and Steve Marchant. For SME’s interested in offering ring fenced internships students please contact Kathryn Goodfellow who can offer further support.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Prism HR

        
 
         
         
        Employers can sign up to Prism HR, a platform which enables companies to register, advertise job opportunities, receive student CV's and connect with university departments. To set up an employer profile sign up now.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Engineering support for employers

        
 
         
         
        Employers wishing to connect further with our students further please contact Mala Mohindru who manages employer relations and our events programme for UCL Engineering, and who is happy to discuss engagement. For more information about the Faculty of Engineering and its careers provision see http://www.engineering.ucl.ac.uk/careers/.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Employer Engagement Events

        
 
         
         
        A series of weekly employer engagement events take place during term time. These are either Tech Talks which are delivered by industry experts from visiting companies, SME’s and entrepreneurs; or Skills Workshops which include CV clinics, mock interviews and mock assessment day sessions which are run by HR representatives from recruiters such as IBM and Morgan Stanley. Employers interested in taking part and presenting to students can contact Steve Marchant.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Other ways to advertise

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Careers Service provides a range of services for recruiters who wish to advertise jobs, internships and similar opportunities to our students. This includes:

        	UCL Alert! - targeted email service to promote opportunities
	UCL Talent Bank - shortlisting service matching students to opportunities
	Placements and Internships - targeting students from various academic programmes
	Other Ways to Advertise - posters, temp agency, UCL Union, UCL Voluntary Services Unit


        If you would like to promote your vacancy immediately to our students, we recommend that you start with the UCL JobOnline (see above) or UCL Alert services. UCL Alert is a targetted email service that helps you to advertise career opportunities through targeted emails to UCL students/graduates, or to students/graduates from all colleges within The Careers Group, University of London (including UCL). Targeting criteria for UCLAlert include degree discipline, preferred career option, degree class and year of study.  There is a small fee to send a UCL Alert - more details can be found by following the link above.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Pertinent information about our students for employers
 
        	Our students are particularly encouraged to undertake summer internships to gain valuable work experience for future employment. Students are available during the Summer vacation which runs from approximately June to September each year.
	Precise information about term time dates can be found here.
	None of our courses are currently 'sandwich' courses, hence year long internships are generally not available to our students.
	Our students have exams in May. Students are very busy with academic studies during and before these exam periods.

 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
