 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› London Hopper 2017 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         London Hopper 2017

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Booking is now open for London Hopper: Thursday 25 May
 
          UCL and BCS Academy will be presenting the 13th London Hopper Colloquium on Thursday 25 May 2017 at the BCS headquarters in London. This year you will hear women speakers talk about their work on building rehabilitation technologies, cybersecurity, simulations of the human heart, and infrastructure for smart cities.
 
          London Hopper is an annual 1-day event for researchers across the UK who are building a career in computing. As well as women speakers talking about their research, it will feature  a spotlight competition with cash prizes open to postgraduate students, and lots of opportunities to meet and network with other early career researchers in computing. 
 
          The event is free but you must book. Booking will be available via the BCS website here.
 
          Note:  We have a new speaker in the 14:45 - 15:15 time slot.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        On this page: 
 
        •    Programme 
 
        •    Registration 
 
        •    Research Spotlight 
 
        •    Venue 
 
        •    Organisers 
 
        •    Supporters 
 
        •    The Hopper Colloquia 
 
        •    Abstracts and Biographies
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Programme

        
 
         
         
        10:00 - 11:00  Registration & refreshments, networking opportunity 
 
        11:00 - 11:10  Welcome 
 
        Professor Caroline Wardle, University College London. 
 
        11:10 - 11:15  Introduction to the day's events 
 
        Dr. Lynda Thomas, Aberystwyth University. 
 
        11:15 - 11:45  Simulations of the human heart shed light on mechanisms underpinning atrial fibrillation 
 
        Dr Anna Muszkiewicz, Research Associate, Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford 
 
        11:45 - 12:15  Research Spotlight 1 
 
        Student Presentations 
 
        12:15 - 12:45   Cybersecurity the billion pound problem 
 
        Juliet Grout, Information Security Manager, IBM 
 
        12:45 - 13:15  Research Spotlight 2 
 
        Student Presentations 
 
        13:15 - 14:45  Buffet lunch, networking opportunity 
 
        14:45 - 15:15   Assistive Devices for the Hearing impaired - Past and Present 
 
        Dr. Ifat Yasin, Senior Lecturer, UCL 
 
        15:15 - 15:45   Building User Centered Rehabilitation Technologies 
 
        Dr. Lynne Baillie, Director of Research, School of Mathematical & Computer Sciences, Heriot-Watt University 
 
        15:45 - 16:00  Awarding of prizes for Best Research Spotlight Presentations 
 
        Back to top
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Registration

        
 
         
         
        The event is free. Book here. 
 
        Back to top
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Research Spotlight

        
 
         
         
        There will be a research spotlight session where women postgraduate students will have an opportunity to present their research work. Three prizes of £100 each, provided by IBM, will be awarded for the best presentations. Two prize winners will be selected by the judges, one prize winner will be chosen by popular vote of the Colloquium delegates. The research may cover any topic within the field of computing and/or related interdisciplinary studies. 
 
        The deadline for registration for the research spotlight session competition is 5pm on Monday, 15 May, 2017. For instructions and guidelines please go to the BCS Academy webpage here.
 
        Back to top
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Venue

        
 
         
         
        The colloquium will be held at the BCS London Office: 
 
        First Floor, The Davidson Building, 5 Southampton Street, London, WC2E 7HA 
 
        Tel: +44 (0)845 300 441; Fax: +44 (0)1793 417669 
 
        Directions to BCS London (PDF) 
 
        Map - black & white (JPG) 
 
        Map - colour (JPG) 
 
        Map (MultiMap.com) 
 
        Back to top
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Organisers

        
 
         
         
        Caroline Wardle, Larissa dos Santos Romualdo, Stuart Clayman and Steve Marchant (UCL); Lynda Thomas (Aberystwyth University). 
 
        Back to top
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Supporters

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          UCL Computer Science is a global leader in research in experimental computer science. The 2014 Research Excellence Framework evaluation ranked UCL first place for computer science; 61% of its research is rated ‘world-leading’ and 96% of its research is rated ‘internationally excellent’. UCL Computer Science research has made a deep, lasting and sustained impact on all aspects of society.
 
          Code written at UCL is used across all 3G mobile networks; medical image computing now means faster prostate cancer diagnosis and has developed cutting edge software for neurosurgery; a human-centred computer security approach has transformed UK government’s delivery of online security. UCL Computer Science enjoys a rich history – it established the first connection to the precursor of the Internet outside the US – and continues to create innovative technologies that change lives with computers.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          The BCS Academy of Computing is the Learned Society within BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT, and is dedicated to advancing computing as an academic discipline. By developing and supporting a cohesive community inclusive of scholars, researchers and professionals with a shared commitment to the advancement of computing, the Academy aims to nurture ingenuity, inventiveness and innovation in computing. It is through our range of activities that we promote excellence in the creation, study and application of knowledge in computing.
 
          BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT, promotes wider social and economic progress through the advancement of information technology science and practice. Bringing together industry, academics, practitioners and government to share knowledge, we promote new thinking, inform the design of new curricula, shape public policy and inform the public.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          IBM is a globally integrated enterprise operating in over 170 countries. Today IBM UK has around 20,000 employees, bringing innovative solutions to a diverse client base to help solve some of their toughest business challenges. In addition to being the world's largest IT and consulting services company, IBM is a global business and technology leader, innovating in research and development to shape the future of society at large.
 
          IBM's prized research, development and technical talent around the world partner with governments, corporations, thinkers and doers on ground breaking real world problems to help make the world work better and build a smarter planet.
 
          Back to top
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Hopper Colloquia

        
 
         
         
        The London Hopper Colloquia grew out of the Scottish Hopper Colloquia, and are modelled on the American Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing which is designed to bring the research and career interests of women in computing to the forefront. These annual American meetings are held as a tribute to Admiral Grace Murray Hopper - pioneer of the computer business language COBOL - who inspired many young U.S. Naval computing students during her heyday and still continues to inspire computer scientists around the world many years after her death. 
 
        Back to top
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Abstracts & Biographies

        
 
         
         
        Building User Centered Rehabilitation Technologies
 
        Dr. Lynne Baillie, Heriot-Watt University 
 
        Abstract: We are moving towards a world in which our healthcare and wellbeing will be mediated through the technology that computer scientists design and develop. Making sure this development is user centered requires working in multidisciplinary teams with health experts, who will bring new languages and ways of working and evaluating for us to understand. I will talk about the challenges my team encountered in designing, developing and evaluating two novel mobile systems for end users who have had an injurious fall or who need assistance with bladder training.  
 
        Biography:  Associate Professor Lynne Bailliehas a PhD and MSc in Computing. She has a strong track record of research in Human Computer Interaction in the areas of mobile and health technology. She has over 15 years in research management and leadership at a senior level in two countries (Austria and UK).
 
        Cybersecurity the billion pound problem
 
        Juliet Grout, IBM
 
        Abstract: Cybersecurity threats and breaches are in the headlines on a regular basis, but how does this impact the wider population?  What are businesses doing and what can you do as individuals?
 
        Biography: Juliet Grout is an Information Security Specialist within the Security and Compliance competency at IBM.  She joined IBM over 18 years ago after graduating with a degree in History and Economics.   Juliet's technical roles include windows, unix, system management, cloud and architecture.  Moving into her current security role in 2013 she has been working with several high profile clients for the last 4 years.  Juliet is also passionate about women pursing careers in technology, she has been a flexible worker since 2008 and is currently co-chairing the Flexible Working group within IBM UK. 
 
        Simulations of the human heart shed light on mechanisms underpinning atrial fibrillation
 
        Dr Anna Muszkiewicz, University of Oxford
 
        Abstract: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common disturbance of the heart rhythm. It is linked to disorganized electrical signals in the upper chambers of the heart – also known as the atria. The causes of this disease are not well-understood, and effective treatments are missing. Experimental investigations into the mechanisms underpinning AF do not give full answers; however, combining experimental studies with computer simulations may help. In this talk, Anna will show how computer models can augment experimental investigations to shed light on the mechanisms underpinning AF.
 
        Biography: Dr. Anna Muszkiewicz is a post-doctoral researcher in Computational Medicine at the Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford, and is funded by the EPSRC Doctoral Prize. Her PhD has been about building computer models of the human heart, with the goal of understanding the causes of one of the most common heart diseases – atrial fibrillation. Prior to moving to Oxford, Anna studied at the University of Edinburgh, where she earned a Master’s degree in Chemical Physics, graduating as the top student in the department. She also worked in research groups at Nanyang Technological University and the National University of Singapore.
 
        Outside of research, Anna is a passionate supporter of diversity and equality in the sciences, and loves mentoring, teaching and otherwise helping others achieve their potential. She was President of the Oxford Females in Engineering, Science, and Technology, a student society supporting and promoting women at Oxford University. She also led the organization of a Leadership Development Programme for Women students at St John's College, Oxford. In her spare time, she enjoys travelling and cultural exploration. Anna has lived in five countries on two continents, and speaks several languages.
 
         
 
        Assistive Devices for the Hearing impaired - Past and Present
 
        Dr Ifat Yasin, UCL
 
        Abstract:  The World Health Organisation (2010, 2013) has identified hearing loss as a significant global problem, not least because of the long-term effects of any untreated/unmanaged hearing loss on speech development, social integration, educational achievement and the psychological well-being of an individual. In this talk Ifat will provide a brief history of the technological development of interventions and assistive devices for the hearing impaired and focus on the potential of emerging technologies that could rapidly move this field forward. In particular, she will focus on the development of a new generation of computational models of hearing which can be used as the basis for intelligent/cognitive hearing aids, cochlear implants and automatic speech recognition systems.  
 
         
 
        Biography:  Dr. Ifat Yasin is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Computer Science, University College London. She has a background in auditory psychophysics and is particularly interested in nonlinear systems as applied to human hearing. These nonlinear systems appear to be crucial for the development of accurate computational models of hearing and hearing aid design, which is the main focus of her work. She originally worked in clinical practice before obtaining a PhD and conducting her post-doctoral research at the Sensory Unit at the University of Oxford after which she joined UCL.
 
        Back to top
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 07 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Steve Marchant 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
