 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› March 12 2015 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Staff Student Consultative Committee 
 
        Department of Computer Science 
 
        Thursday 12 March 2015 
 
        Roberts 110 
 
        Minutes 
 
        Staff present: 
 
        Dr Graham Roberts (Departmental Tutor, DEOLO, Director of Studies), Tracy Williams (Postgraduate Administrator) 
 
        Student Academic Representatives present: 
 
        Apinan Hasthanasombat (1st Year UG Rep), Yee Chong Tan (1st Year UG Rep), Alexander Gamble (2nd Year UG Rep), Rohan Kopparapu (2nd Year UG Rep), Michael Boon (4th Year UG Rep), Mengjao Wang (CSML Rep), Faymora Femi-Balogun (ML Rep), Lionel Ward (ML Rep), Kevin Li (SSE Rep), George Robinson (NCS Rep), Axel Striesow (CS Rep), Maithreyi Venkatesh (WSBDA representing Jonas Hou), Daniel Cater (WSBDA representing Jonas Hou), Lucky Onwuzurike (1st Year PhD) 
 
        In Attendance: 
 
        Alexander Gamble (Chair) 
 
        Samantha Webb (Undergraduate Administrator, Secretary) 
 
        1.       Apologies 
 
        The Chair welcomed the committee and apologies were noted from: 
 
        JJ Giwa (Facilities and Operations Manager) 
 
        Patricia Fenoy (Departmental Office Administrator) 
 
        Jill Saunders (Departmental Manager) 
 
        Nicola Alexander (Teaching and Learning Manager) 
 
        Jonas Hou (WSBDA Rep) 
 
        2.       Notification of any other business 
 
        There were no items notified to be discussed as any other business. 
 
        3.       Approval of minutes from the last meeting on 3 December 20014 
 
        The minutes were approved as an accurate record of the meeting. 
 
        4.       Matters arising from the minutes of the previous meeting 
 
        4.1   Graham gave an update on the plans for part of the department to move to 66-72 Gower Street. Around 1/3 of the academic staff will be moving and there will be a reshuffle of the space available.  This will be an interim measure until a more permanent location is found.  Graham stated that student input into the new building will be welcomed.  Alex Gamble asked what would happen with the space which is ‘freed up’ from the move.  Graham explained that unfortunately there is no new space, just a reallocation of staff.  Student Reps asked if there would be a student common room.  Graham said there is no space for this at present, although the ground floor of 66-72 Gower Street will include facilities for research students.  The creation of a student common room is on the Faculty Agenda. 
 
        4.2   MScFC Actions (Antoaneta Serguieva) 
 
        Antoaneta gave a brief update on the status of the MScFC. The issues raised in the previous minutes have been addressed. 
 
        Agenda Items 
 
        5.       Teaching Matters 
 
        5.1   Personal tutor meetings (Alexander Gamble) 
 
        Alex commented that 50-60% of 2nd year students are not having personal tutor meetings. 
 
        Graham stated that tutors should take the initiative but reminded the student reps that the purpose of the tutorials are of a pastoral nature and therefore the tutees should also contact their tutors as and when needed.  Alex noted that some students do not feel that they can contact their tutors.  
 
        There was a general discussion on the issue, the outcome of which was it would be checked to see if the first tutorial of the year could be added to the general timetable. 
 
        ACTION: Samantha to check this with Nicola. 
 
        5.2   Late return of marked coursework (Rohan Kopparapu) 
 
        Rohan noted that the return of coursework this year was worse than the previous.  Seven major pieces of coursework were due to be returned and only two were returned on time.  Graham stated that this unacceptable.  He explained that there is a thorough marking process and that the department is in the process of recruiting additional teaching fellows.  Graham also suggested there should be a change in process of how coursework is marked.  When a piece of coursework is set, there should also be a date by which it will be returned.  Reps mentioned in particular the lack of communication between the academics and students as to when coursework would be returned. 
 
        ACTION: Graham to discuss the issues with academics 
 
        5.3   Mistakes in coursework specifications (Rohan Kopparapu) 
 
        Students taking the COMP2010 module were unhappy with the lack of understanding with regard to the coursework.  When they approached the academic they did not find the information helpful.  However, they were granted an extension for the coursework which was noted. 
 
        5.4   Exam timetable (Jonas Hou) 
 
        The reps were querying when the students would receive the examination timetable as it was already overdue.  Tracy Williams explained that this is not a departmental issue but a college one.  The department had received confirmation from college that it was a software issue and that it would be corrected as soon as possible.  The examinations office is working towards the end of term as a possible date.  Graham responded that if students are unhappy with this, particularly as it is a recurring problem then they should contact the senior staff and the Provost.  As any changes to the timetable are not within the power of the department as exams are timetabled across the college. 
 
        5.5   Resources and tools for coursework not installed on CS machines, e.g., Scala (Jonas Hou)  
 
        Maithreyi (on behalf of Jonas) mentioned that the programmes needed in order for students to complete their coursework were not always loaded on the machines in the labs.  For example: Scala. 
 
        Tracy Williams stated that academics are emailed at the start of each term and asked if any particular programmes are needed for the lab computers.  
 
        Students were advised to approach the TSG helpdesk if they have any outstanding issues with IT. 
 
        ACTION: Academics would be reminded of the need to inform technical staff if any particular software is needed for students to complete their coursework.  
 
        5.6   Less 3 hour lecture blocks (Jonas Hou) 
 
        Maithreyi (on behalf of Jonas) raised the issue of three hour lecture blocks and if these could be limited.  Graham responded that the UCL Common Timetabling system allocates in 2 and 3 hour blocks.  There are many factors to take into consideration with regards to timetabling including constraints on when lecturers are available to teach. 
 
        Michael Boon commented that the lectures are not usually 3 hours therefore students are not having the full teaching time.  Daniel Cater noted that in one of the modules they have a 2 hour and 1 hour split which is more of a benefit to students.  
 
        5.7   Timetables for labs not always there or up-to-date. Are they online? (Jonas Hou) 
 
        Graham commented that he has not seen these online. 
 
        ACTION: Samantha will check with Nicola whether this is possible. 
 
                6.0 Facilities
                No items submitted. 
 
                7.0 Any Other Business 
 
        Reps were concerned that the point of the SSCC has been lost.  They felt that issues were discussed at the meeting and then no further action was taken.  They noted that there seemed to be a declining interest amongst academic staff in attending the meeting.  Graham noted that the size of the department had increased rapidly in the last couple of years and that staff had other factors which dictated their time, including the REF, Turing institute and the relocation of the department.  
 
        A new teaching group has been established to refocus the attention of the department on teaching and teaching quality. 
 
                8.0 The next meeting is due to be held in December 2015 (Date TBC) 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
