 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Mediagamma secures seed funding for automated digital ad futures & options exchange
 
         
          
          

         
 
         MediaGamma, the first automatic futures and options exchange for digital advertising, today announced the closing of their seed round. The company which is spun out of the Department of Computer Science at UCL and is supported by UCL Business PLC (UCLB), is focused on bringing new trading methodologies and products to the programmatic digital advertising sector— a global marketplace that will reach approximately US $53 billion by 20181.
 
         Much like modern financial markets, the MediaGamma exchange offers the ability for buyers and sellers to agree on a price and volume for future real-time media placements across multiple digital channels. The company is currently piloting with a number of participants. 
 
         Seed round investors include UCLB and a syndicate of tech-sector focused angel investors. This round augments the £200k received in grant awards from the government’s Innovate UK programme. Accelerate Cambridge has also provided early support to the venture.
 
         Rael Cline, MediaGamma Co-founder and CEO, stated: “Now that programmatic advertising represents nearly half of all display ad spend, the time is right to widen opportunities for programmatic traders to manage risk and for publishers to secure revenue in advance. We’re excited to begin a new stage of MediaGamma’s development, working ever more closely with brands, agencies, publishers and industry trade bodies to develop products and use cases that solve real material problems.”
 
         Dr Jun Wang, MediaGamma Co-founder and CTO, added: “MediaGamma’s technology is directly derived from the world-class research developed in the Department of Computer Science at UCL in Computational Advertising and Big Data Analytics. Combined with MediaGamma’s commercial application of state of the art large-scale machine intelligence, we will provide new capabilities for media trading on a global scale.”  
 
         Marina Santilli, Senior Business Manager at UCLB commented: “Having tracked the demand for advertising futures for some while now, we believe MediaGamma’s entrance to the programmatic advertising sector is well-timed. We look forward to continuing our support of the company as it goes from strength to strength.” 
 
         For more information on MediaGamma’s pilot programme, please contact Julian Grainger on 07710 481182.
 
         Notes to editors: 
 
         1 The global programmatic marketplace is forecast to reach US $53 billion by 2018. Source: Global Media Suppliers Advertising Revenue Forecast, September 2014, MAGNA GLOBAL. 
 
         About MediaGamma
 The first automatic futures and options exchange for digital media, MediaGamma is transforming the way digital media is valued, traded, and measured. Established in 2014 at the intersection of London’s tech, advertising, and finance hubs, MediaGamma’s customers include some of the UK’s leading brands, agencies, and publishers. 
 
         MediaGamma provides its partners with greater transparency and control when they buy and sell digital media by offering an accurate, ROI-based view of the immediate and long-term value of inventory. Brands, agencies, and publishers can also engage in programmatic direct or upfront inventory purchases and sales on the MediaGamma platform, mitigating price volatility and ensuring brand safety. 
 
         About UCL Business PLC 
 
         UCL Business PLC (UCLB) is a leading technology transfer company that supports and commercialises research and innovations arising from UCL, one of the UK’s top research-led universities. UCLB has a successful track record and a strong reputation for identifying and protecting promising new technologies and innovations from UCL academics. UCLB has a strong track record in commercialising medical technologies and provides technology transfer services to UCL’s associated hospitals; University College London Hospitals, Moorfields Eye Hospital, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children and the Royal Free London Hospital. It invests directly in development projects to maximise the potential of the research and manages the commercialisation process of technologies from laboratory to market. For further information, please visit: www.uclb.com 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 05 May 15 15:45 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Chirp is 1st UCL company... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Gordana Novakovic to...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
