 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Most updates to mobile apps don’t make a noticeable difference
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The majority of updates to mobile apps don’t have a significant impact on user ratings, suggesting developers might release updates too frequently, according to a new study by UCL researchers. They found free apps were less likely to make an impact when their developers release an update compared to paid apps, although among the impactful releases, the impact was more likely to be positive for free apps.
 
         “There’s a culture among app developers of getting more releases out than your competitors, but our research suggests they should think more carefully before putting out a release, as it might bear very little benefit,” says Professor Mark Harman, Head of UCL Computer Science's Software Systems Engineering Research Group, and the senior author of paper being published in the peer-reviewed proceedings of the International Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, which takes place November 13-16.
 
         The researchers analysed 26,339 app updates released on Google Play over a period of 12 months, from 14,592 apps which had all appeared in one of Google Play’s ‘Top 540’ lists at least once in the preceding year. Using a novel causal impact analysis technique they developed, the researchers measured success by looking at user ratings and frequency of ratings.
 
         They found that for paid apps, 40% of releases impacted subsequent user ratings, compared to only 31% of updates to free apps. Despite this, among the releases which made an impact, the free apps had more positive effects. Among paid apps, the most successful releases came from the most expensive apps.
 
         “Many app developers are afraid to charge for their apps, but our research underlines that it can be worth doing, perhaps because users are more invested so they care more about the quality of what they’ve paid for,” says lead author and Researcher William Martin.
 
         Their research also shed light on how releases can be designed to maximize impact. They found the most impactful releases offer new functionality and more descriptive release texts, but strategies should depend on the app’s popularity. Among popular apps that aren’t quite in the top echelon, bug fixes resonate particularly well.
 
         “App developers should take note of where they are on the market. For the most popular apps, we surmise that users expect they won’t have bugs, but for the up and coming apps, a few flaws are less surprising so users like to see bugs getting fixed,” adds Dr Federica Sarro, Senior Research Associate.
 
         The researchers shared their methods and results with app developers, and received feedback from 56 companies. The majority found the causal impact analysis to be an effective means of gauging user response, while one in three said their company would consider changing its release strategy in response to the findings.
 
         The research is being published in the peer-reviewed proceedings of the International Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, which takes place November 13-16.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 16 Nov 16 16:33 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL receives Google... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Student Project at...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
