 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         MSc SSE students and the "Lab of Things"
 
         
          
          

         
 
         A group of MSc Software Systems Engineering students have carried out their summer industry project working for Microsoft Research's team on the "Lab of Things" (LoT) platform. This research platform makes it easy to deploy interconnected devices, intended for end user scenarios such multiple homes, workplaces and public services, based on the Internet of Things theory. It allows the sharing research data with other investigators, turning each scenario into a potential large-scale study. 
 
         The students have published their software for Microsoft Research, by developing an "analytics engine" to scrutinize data collected from experiments and research applications running on the LoT. The engine permits easy integration of data from other embedded platforms and facilitates analysis (R, Hadoop etc.) of the collected sensor data through a simple user interface. 
 
         The students' work has been featured on the Microsoft Research Connections blog. 
 
         The Internet of Things is a growing research area in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering communities, with a large number of companies researching ways to align and integrate their hardware and software within the world of ubiquitous sensors today. It enables us to quickly refer to uniquely classify, access and manage identifiable objects and their virtual representations in an Internet-like structure. 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 28 Oct 13 09:59 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL-CS Collaboration... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Staff win teaching awards

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
