 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Timetables ›› MSc CF Induction Timetable 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         MSc Computational Finance Induction Week 2016

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           

           	When is Induction Week?


	Getting to UCL


	Finding the Department of Computer Science


	Finding your way to a specific room


	Induction Timetable


	What if I Miss an Induction Event?


           

          

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         When is Induction Week?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Induction Week this year begins on 
         Monday 28th September 
         2015 and Lectures begin the following Monday (5th October).  
         
 
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Getting to UCL

        
 
         
         
         
          
         

         
          If you are coming from abroad or have not yet visited the Main UCL Campus, the address you need to head to is Gower Street, Bloomsbury, London, WC1E 6BT.  
          

          
Detailed instructions of how to get to UCL by public transport can be found 
          on the UCL map web pages. The nearest mainline train station is 
          Euston, and the nearest underground stations are 
          Goodge Street and 
          Euston Square.  
          

          
We would recommend using the 
          Transport for London Journey Planner when making your travel arrangements. 
         
 
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Finding the Computer Science Department 

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           The Computer Science Department is located in the Malet Place Engineering Building, (
           MPEB), at the southern end of campus.  New students can access MPEB via the Engineering Front Building entrance on the corner of Torrington Place and Malet Place (opposite Waterstones book shop).  
           
 
           More information is available at www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/getting_here

          

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Finding your way to a specific room

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Rooms at UCL are usually represented by a room code with the exception of some lecture theatres and rooms that are also named after people.  The room code consists of the building name, a floor number, a dot, then the  room number.  
         

         (E.g. MPEB 1.02 = Malet Place Engineering Building, 1st Floor, Room 2) 
         
 
         UCL is a big place and so you will be given a map when you first arrive to help you find your way around in the first few weeks.  
 
         Useful Tips 
 
         The UCL maps pages allow to search for directions to a room or building.

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Induction Timetable

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

          
           
          Please Note: All sessions below are subject to change. Please ensure you check the timetable regularly. You will be informed by email of any last minute changes after you have arrived. 
 
          Monday 26th September 2016 
 
          11:00 – 12:00 1.02 Malet Place Engineering Building 
 
          Sign up to the Computer Science Department 
 
          Tuesday 27th September 2016 
 
          12:00 – 14:00 1.02 Malet Place Engineering Building 
 
          Welcome and Programme Introduction Talk with Dr Guido Germano 
 
          Wednesday 28th September 2016  
 
          15:30 The Gallery, ULUCS Welcome Party! 
 
          Come and meet your tutorsand fellow students 
 
          Thursday 29th September 2016 
 
          14:00 UCL Main Quad, Gower Street Entrance 
 
          Enrolment for those unable to enrol over the weekend 
 
          Friday 30th September 2016 
 
          No sessions 
 
          Saturday 1st October 2016 
 
          10:30 – 16:00 Wilkins Building, North Cloisters 
 
          Welcome Festival! Clubs, societies and local and national businesses will all be there, vying for your attention. This is a great chance to get to know what’s available to you as a student at UCL
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What if I miss an Induction Event?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         If you are unable to attend any of the induction events please let your 
         Programme Administrator know so they can keep you up to date on important information that may have been missed.  
        

        

        
   
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Sean Taylor 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
