 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Timetables ›› MSc WSci Induction Timetable 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         MSc/MRes Web Science & Big Data Analytics Induction Week 2015

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           

           	When is Induction Week?


	Getting to UCL.


	Finding the Computer Science Department


	Finding your way to a specific room


	Induction Timetable


	What if I Miss an Induction Event?


           

          

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         When is Induction Week?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Induction Week this year begins on 
         Monday 28th September 
         2015 and Lectures begin the following Monday. 
         
 
         For other important and useful information about the start of term and what is required of you as a New Student, please see our main New Students page.

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Getting to UCL

        
 
         
         
         
          
         

         
          If you are coming from abroad or have not yet visited the Main UCL Campus, the address you need to head to is Gower Street, Bloomsbury, London, WC1E 6BT.  
          

          
Detailed instructions of how to get to UCL by public transport can be found 
          on the UCL map web pages. The nearest mainline train station is 
          Euston, and the nearest underground staions are 
          Goodge Street and 
          Euston Square.  
          

          
We would recommend using the Transport for London Journey Planner below when making your travel arrangements. 
         
 
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
          

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Finding the Computer Science Department 

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           The Computer Science Department is located in the Malet Place Engineering Building, (
           MPEB), at the southern end of campus.  New students can access MPEB via the Engineering Front Building entrance on Torrington Place opposite Waterstones book shop.  
          

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Finding your way to a specific room

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Rooms at UCL are usually represented by a room code with the exception of some lecture theatres and rooms that are also named after people.  The room code consists of the building name, a floor number, a dot, then the  room number.  
         

         (E.g. MPEB 1.02 = Malet Place Engineering Building, 1st Floor, Room 2) 
         
 
         UCL is a big place and so you will be given a map as part of your induction pack to help you find your way around in the first few weeks.  
 
         Useful Tips 
 
         UCL also has a routefinder system which is very useful for finding your way to a particular place, or if you have an iPhone or iPod Touch you can download the UCL iMap app (developed by a UCL CS student), to help you navigate your way around campus.  

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Induction Timetable

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

          
           
          Please Note: All sessions below are subject to change. You will be given a printed copy of the timetable in your induction pack. 
 
          

          
           

           	Monday 28th September 2015
	
 	12.00-13.00	MPEB 1.20
(1st Floor) 
 
 
	 Sign up with the Computer Science Department
with Sean Taylor, Teaching & Learning Administrator

			
		
 
	
			
	Tuesday 29th September 2015
		12.30–13.30	MPEB 1.02	Welcome & Programme Information
with Dr Shi Zhou and Dr Jun Wang

		15:00	Main Quad
(Gower Street)
	UCL Enrolment
www.ucl.ac.uk/new-students/enrolment
You should have been sent an individual enrolment slot. We have been told that Computer Science students will enrol at this tiome, but if you have been sent a different appointment, please stick to that allocated appointment. You should have already completed your pre-enrolment online and have your IS access. Please remember to bring your passport and visa with you. You will be given a statement to confirm your enrolment and will then be directed to get your UCL student ID card.

			
			
			
	Wednesday 30th September 2015
		11:30-12:00	JZ Young Lecture Theatre
(Anatomy)
	Central IT Services Induction
	13.00-14.00	MPEB 1.05	Java Lab Session

	14.30-17.00	The Gallery, ULU	Welcome Party! Come and meet your tutors and fellow students


	Thursday 1st October 2015
	
			
			No Sessions
			
			
	Friday 2nd October 2015
	
 
  		
 	No sessions
			
			
			
			
			
			


           

          
 
          
 
          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What if I miss an Induction Event?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         If you are unable to attend any of the induction events please let your 
         Programme Administrator know so they can keep you up to date on important information that may have been missed.  
        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
