 
   
    
    
    Department of Computer Science
 
   
 
    
    
     
     
     
      
      
       
       
        
        
         
         
         
          
         	Home
	About us
	Athena Swan
	Grants
	Awards
	Picture Galleries
	Events
	News
	Subscribe
	Equalities
	Contact us

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         Tweets by @WomeninCSUCL 
          
          
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
          
          
           
          
           NEWS

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Emine Yilmaz awarded the Microsoft BCS Karen Sparck-Jones Award

          
 
           
           
          
           
            
             
            

           

            
             
            The panel was impressed by the body of Emine's research on evaluation techniques to better match the realities of modern information systems, in particular her work on missing user judgments, her proposed new metrics that are more robust to missing data and her work on expected browsing utility as a new evaluation metric derived from interaction patterns of real web search sessions. Her recent work focused on devising and evaluating the quality of task based information retrieval systems, retrieval systems that can help the user complete the task that have led them issue a query to a search engine  More
 
             
           

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Stay safe Online

          
 
           
           
           
            
           		UCL Professional Services departments have been affected multiple times over the last few months by malicious software which "locks" shared files away and asks for money to restore them. This has resulted in up tp a week of loss of access to shared drives in affected areas, and permanent loss of a few files. Please use great caution when you receive an email with links and/or attachments. If in doubt, do not click on a link or open an attachment More

 
            
          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Dr Sarah Meiklejohn honoured by UC San Diego

          
 
           
           
           
            
           		Dr Sarah Meiklejohn, a lecturer in the department and member of the Information Security Group, has been honoured by the University of California San Diego. In recognition of the outstanding PhD dissertation she completed there in 2014, she has been awarded the 2015 Chancellor's Dissertation Medal. Her dissertation, "Flexible Models for Secure Systems", proposes methods to track real-world cyber criminals.    More


 
            
          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Women in CS recognise female achievements

          
 
           
           
          
           
            
             
            

           

            
             
             On the 19th October the CS Ladies group met in a local tea shop  to celebrate the successes of female academics in CS this year. With four promotions and Professor Angela Sasse's election as Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, there was a lot to celebrate.   More
 
             
           

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Celebrating Ada Lovelace Day @ UCL

          
 
           
           
          
           
            
             
            

           

            
             
            Local schools, eminent guests from industry and our own staff and students came together to celebrate Ada Lovelace Day @ UCL. Recognised internationally, Ada Lovelace Day is a  celebration of the achievements of women in science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) - taking the name of the first computer programmer - and is aimed at inspiring the next generation of computer scientists.  More
 
             
           

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Gordana Novakovic to speak at "Web We Want" festival

          
 
           
           
          
           
            
             
            

           

            
             
            Gordana Novakovic, the CS Department's artist in residence, has been invited to speak at panel discussion at the "Web We Want" festival of creative workshops, digital art and talks to celebrate how and why the World-wide Web has transformed the world. The panel is entitled 'Neuroplasticity and the Web: How Technology is Changing the Brain' and will address the question "In this age of rapid technological development ... is technology affecting the architecture of our brains."  Chair Rita Carter, science writer, lecturer and broadcaster on neuroscience, is joined by Rebecca Ross and artist Gordana Novakovic, Artist in Residence & Honorary Senior Research Fellow at University College London Computer Sciences Department. More
 
             
           

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           UCL's Team Chime are Atos IT Challenge 2015 finalists

          
 
           
           
          
           
            
             
            

           

            
             
            We were delighted that Team Chime from UCL Computer Science finished 3rd at the ATOS IT Challenge 2015 in Paris, with a design for the doorbell of the future, which lets you answer your door from your phone anywhere, anytime. The theme for this year’s Atos IT Challenge was Connected Living. Participating students were asked to uncover the opportunities enabled by the Third Digital Revolution  which will see 25 billion objects connected to the Internet by 2018 More
 
             
           

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           UCL Engineering & The Bartlett to expand

          
 
           
           
          
           
            
             
            

           

            
             
            UCL Engineering and The Bartlett, UCL’s faculty of the Built Environment, will be expanding into premises at Here East on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in early 2016. Next year, UCL will take possession of 3,000 square metres of 10 metre high studio space at Here East which will be used to undertake ground-breaking research in areas including architecture, infrastructure   More
 
             
           

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Submit an article 

          
 
           
          
           
            
            
            
           
 
            
           
            
             Name: 
             
            

            
             Email: 
             
            

            
             Contact me: 
             
            

             
             
            

           
 
            
          

         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
        
          
        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
    	Disclaimer
	Freedom of Information
	Accessibility
	Privacy
	Cookies
	Advanced Search
	Contact Us

 
     Computer Science Department, University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT Tel: +44 (0) 20 3108 7001
 © UCL 1999–2015 
 
   
 
    
  
  
 
