 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Personalised Medicine Global Challenges: Research Taps into Cerebral Malaria Gene
 
         
          
          Image shows an unconscious comatose child diagnosed with life-threathening cerebral malaria. With permission from Department of Paediatrics, University College Hospital Ibadan, Nigeria

         
 
         Towards Understanding Individual Predisposition to Life-Threatening Cerebral Malaria
 
         A multi-site multidisciplinary team led by D. Fernandez-Reyes (UCL Department of Computer Science); S. Marquet and A. Dessein (Aix-Marseille University, Marseille, France); O. Doumbo (Faculty of Medicine, Bamako, Mali) and B.J. Brown (College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria) have identified a variant in a key immune-regulatory-network gene (IL-22) that predisposes to childhood life-threatening cerebral malaria. The findings are published in the 31st January issue of Nature Scientific Reports: “A Functional IL22 Polymorphism (rs2227473) Is Associated with Predisposition to Childhood Cerebral Malaria. Sci. Rep. 7, 41636; doi: 10.1038/srep41636 (2017)”. http://rdcu.be/pla1
 
         Malaria is endemic in more than 90 countries and together with HIV and Tuberculosis continues to be a major Global Health Challenge. Most deaths occur among children under the age of five-years living in sub-Saharan Africa as a result of severe clinical complications such as cerebral malaria and severe malarial anaemia. Because of the high mortality associated with these severe complications, a key challenge is to identify individual risk factors that discriminate between children with uncomplicated malaria and those who will develop severe complications.
 
         Our multidisciplinary work brings together our expertise in the computational and data sciences with that of the clinical, life and population sciences, across academic partners in Africa, Europe and the US and it is contributing to discover functional associations that underpin predisposition to life-threatening malaria in children living in regions of the World under large burden of endemic malaria. These biomedical data-driven validated discoveries, together with our current work on robotic fast-automated microscopic malaria diagnosis strengthen our strategies to harness machine learning, artificial intelligence, digital health and novel computational approaches to tackle global childhood mortality due to malaria.

         
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 22 Feb 17 16:02 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL Machine Learning... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Can an algorithm be held...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
