 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Peter O'Hearn elected fellow of Royal Academy of Engineering
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The Royal Academy of Engineering is the UK’s national academy for engineering and brings together the most successful and talented engineers from across the engineering sectors for a shared purpose: to advance and promote excellence in engineering.  
 
         The Academy's Fellowship represents the nation’s best engineering researchers, innovators, entrepreneurs, business and industry leaders. Election to the Academy is by invitation only; about 50 Fellows are elected each year by peer review from nominations made by existing Fellows. They are distinguished by the title "Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering". 
 
         This year's list includes Peter O'Hearn, Professor of Computer Science at University College London and an Engineering Manager at Facebook. The citation reads: 
 
         "As well as having made profound contributions to methods for checking and reasoning about computer programs, Professor O’Hearn has made a major commitment to ensuring that these ideas are used in practice. Among his most important innovations, "separation logic’"has spawned a whole research field. He founded a spinout company that built software tools that either detect errors in complex computer code or provide evidence of their absence. The company, Monoidics, has subsequently been acquired by Facebook where he now works with a group that is impacting the software production process." 
 
         For more on Peter's work see:

         	Computer-Aided Verification award for Peter O'Hearn
	Professor Peter O’Hearn is Awarded the 2016 Gödel Prize

 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 09 Sep 16 17:30 
         
 
          
          
           Next: AI experts at UCL... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Google Research...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
