 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Prospective Students ›› PhD Programme 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         PhD Programme

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           

           	Award:   
	Master of Philosophy/Doctor of Philosophy 
	Level:	Postgraduate
	Intended for:	Computer Science Masters Graduates
	Duration:	3 years full-time, 5 years part-time
	Full/Part Time: 	Both options are available
	Places:	30 to 40 per year

	Email:	cs.pgr_admissions@ucl.ac.uk
	Infomation for current students:	www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/teaching_learning/mphilphd/ 


           

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Why choose this course?

        
 
         
         
        

        
         Imagine being at the forefront of innovation, helping to move technology forward into the future that 
         you envision, becoming a part of history and changing the world. 
         
 
          Become one of the leaders within technology like Ada Lovelace, the world’s first computer programmer. Ada helped revolutionise computers by writing the first algorithm intended to be carried out by a machine in 1842. The word ‘Algorithm’ dates back to the 1200’s where it was the technique of performing arithmetic with Hindu/Arabic numerals, developed by al-Khwarizmi. Within years of Ada writing the algorithm George Boole expanded on this concept and formalised the Boolean algebra, the basis for digital logic and computer science in 1847 – 1854. Susan Nycum co-authored the classic book Computer Abuse, which was one of the first studies to define and document computer related crime in 1973. Dr Anita Borg ‘believed that technology affects all aspects of our economic, political, social and personal lives. A technology rebel with a cause, in her life she fought tirelessly to ensure that technology’s impact would be a positive one. It was this vision that inspired Anita in 1997 to found the Institute for Women and Technology.’ In 2001 UCL’s Dr Susan Black founded the BCSWomen and has won the following prestigious awards: John Ivinson Award and the PepsiCo Women’s Inspiration Award. Susan is constantly pushing the boundaries of computing and inspiring women to move and look forward in computing. 
 
         If you want a to follow a research degree programme that will not only challenge and stimulate you but has the potential to lead to an interesting career and valuable contact with academia and industry, then UCL Computer Science could not be a better place to start. 
 
         The Department of Computer Science has built a reputation as one of the major university centres for applied Computer Science research in Europe.  Because we have some of the top UK research groups in many fields, you will be supervised by academics at the very forefront of computer science. Our research is in nine major areas, in each of which we have international recognition:

         	Bioinformatics
	Financial Computing and Analytics
	Human Centred Systems
	Intelligent Systems
	Information Security
	Media Futures
	Programming Principles, Logic and Verification Group
	Software Systems Engineering
	Systems and Networks
	Virtual Environments and Computer Graphics
	Vision and Imaging Science


         All the groups receive substantial funding from various sources, notably the EPSRC, the European Union, Industry, other UK sources, US government and charities. In addition we have received several large facilities grants for our immersive virtual environment, body scanner and GRID infrastructure. The department is also fortunate in the donations it receives, often in the form of equipment.

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         PhD Programme - Keyword Search

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
        
         Loading
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Click below for Further Details

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
              
               
              

             
 
             
              
               
              

             
 
             
              
               
              

             

            
 
            
             
              
               
              

             
 
             
              
               
              

             
 
             
              
               
              

             

            
 
            
             
              
               
              

             
 
             
              
               
              

             
 
             
              
               
              

             

            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Find out more about us on YouTube

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
          
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Department of Computer Science, UCL (University College London)
 Malet Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK
 Phone: 020 7679 7214 (+44 20 7679 7214)
 Fax: 020 7387 1397 (+44 20 7387 1397) 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Research Student Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
