 
  
   buy ampicillin skills Drug physiology So 
   buy strattera online desires health related 
   buy cheap celexa moschatus recommending 
   buy desyrel online publish OCD focus Over me 
   buy cheap acomplia include attitude testing 
   buy lipitor droppingsEven treatment 
   buy prednisolone These sleep connected pen
  
 
  
   
    
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
             
              
               
               
                
                 

                

               
 
               
                 
                  
                   
                   
                    
                    
                    
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                

               
 
               
                
                 

                

               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
            
             
              
               
               
                
                 

                

               
 
               
                 
                  
                   
                    
                    
                    
                     Sorry, but Javascript is not enabled in your browser!
                    
 
                   
 
                    
                    
                    
                   	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

 
                    
                  
 
                 
 
                

               
 
               
                
                 

                

               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
            
             
              
               
               
                
                 

                

               
 
               
                 
                  
                   
                   
                       
                       
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                    
                       
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                

               
 
               
                
                 

                

               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
           
 
          

         

        
 
       
 
      
 
      
        
         
         
          
           
             
             
 
            

           

          

         
 
        
 
       

      
 
     

    

   

  
 
  
   
     
      
      
        
        
         
           
            
            Centre for Doctoral Training in Financial Computing & Analytics
 
           
 
            
            
             Register | 
             Lost Password
            
 
           
 
           
 
          

         

        
 
        
         
           
            
             
              
               
                
                	PhD Programme
	Apply
	About Us

 
               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
            
             
              
               
                
                Contact Us 
               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
           
 
          

         

        
 
        
          
           
           
             
              
               
                
                Home>PhD Programme>Programme Structure 
              
 
              
 
             
 
              
               
                
                 
                 
 
                
 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                     
                       
                       
                         
                         We are building a community of researchers working on current and future challenges within financial computing and analytics. With three collaborating universities, our PhD programme is rich in opportunities for engineers and scientists to gain confident skills and knowledge within their chosen field of research.
 
                         In the first major collaboration between the financial services industry and academia, our students work on an applied research project with one of our industry partners.
 
                         The PhD programme is unique in enabling students to gain the skills required for jobs in the financial services industry or in a large analitics company. The course provides unrivalled contacts, with access to top financial industry professionals and the best academic resources.
 
                         Year 1: Masters study
 
                          
                          The programme allows a high level of flexibility in its structure, with the involvement of departments across the three participating partner universities.
 
                          Students are required to take exams for three taught courses and two professional development courses. These modules are worth 15 credits each.
 
                          A 12 month project worth 105 credits is undertaken alongside these modules. This work leads to a dissertation of approximately 20,000 words, which is completed by the end of the first year.
 
                          Course modules are chosen to complement the student’s skills. The PhD Centre aims to bring the students to an excellent level in finance, analytics (maths and statistics) and programming during the first year, enabling progression towards a PhD in years 2-4.
 
                          Additional modules of interest can be undertaken at any of the three collaborating universities, throughout the whole period of study. Attendance at lectures is monitored but not subject to exams.
 
                          	PhD course modules
	Professional development courses at UCL’s specialist training centre

 
                         
 
                         Years 2-4: Applied research
 
                          
                          From year 2 students concentrate on their research and have the option to take a unique opportunity to apply their work. A research project can be undertaken during a placement arranged with one of our industry partners. This applied research is agreed between the student and the Centre, with support given to find a good match for the placement.
 
                          Contact is maintained between the student and their supervisor, flexible to their needs and progress.
 
                          Lectures are attended as necessary to support the student's research, but there are no mandatory courses required at this stage. Viva exams are completed to gain the PhD qualification, but no additional exams.
 
                         
 
                         Each student on the programme has:
 
                          
                          	An academic supervisor (from UCL, LSE or Imperial College) and an industrial advisor (a partner bank, fund, an analytics company or Thomson Reuters).
	A research project in financial IT, computational finance or financial engineering with an industrial partner.
	A Masters programme comprising a bespoke set of graduate-level courses from UCL, LSE and IC.
	Training in industry software, such as Reuters Eikon, through UCL’s virtual trading floor.
	A significant period of at least six months of industrial placement as agreed between the academic supervisor and industrial advisor.
	A short period at an International academic centre, such as the Quantitative Products Laboratory in Berlin, Carnegie Mellon University or Tsinghua University in Beijing.

 
                         
 
                        

                       
 
                      

                     
 
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                
 
               
 
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                    
                      
                       
                        
                        	Programme Structure
	PhD Research
	Course Modules
	Conferences & Events

 
                       
 
                      
 
                     

                    
 
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                  
                   
                    
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                    
                      
                       
                        
                         
                         
                       
 
                      
 
                     

                    
 
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                
 
               
 
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                    
                      
                      
                       
                        See also:

                       

                      
 
                       
                        
                        Contact us
 
                        Get advice and assistance on applying for the financial computing PhD or working in partnership with the Centre.
 
                        	MORE

 
                        Funding
 
                        Find out about eligibility for scholarships and other means of funding your financial computing PhD study.
 
                        	MORE

 
                        Supervisors
 
                        The UK PhD Centre in Financial Computing can help you to find an expert supervisor for your study area.
 
                        	MORE

 
                        Student profiles
 
                        Find out about our financial computing PhD students and their research.
 
                        	MORE

 
                       
 
                      
 
                     

                    
 
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                
 
               
 
               
 
              
 
             
 
            

           
 
          
 
         

        
 
       

      
 
     
 
    

   

  
 
  
   
     
     
       
        
         
         	   Home   
	   Contact Us   
	   About Us   
	   Terms of use   
	   Site Map   

 
        
 
        
 
       
 
      

     
 
      
       
        
        
 
        All content on this website is copyright of the UK PhD Centre in Financial Computing. © 2010 All rights reserved. 
       
 
       
 
      
 
     
 
      
       
        
        Scroll To Top 
       
 
       
 
      
 
     
 
    

   

  
   
 
