 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         REF2014: UCL Computer Science ranked first 
 
         
          
          

         
 
         In the 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF) evaluation UCL was ranked in first place for Computer Science, out of 89 Universities assessed, and considerably ahead of other Institutions. 61% of its research submission is rated as world-leading (the highest possible category) and 96% of its research submission is rated as internationally excellent. 
 
         UCL researchers in Computer Science and Informatics received a ‘grade point average’ of 3.57 (out of 4) and submitted 75 staff to be assessed in REF2014. UCL Computer Science has made seminal contributions across the full range of its core strengths and associated 11 research groups and 8 centres, including the Centre for Health Informatics & Multiprofessional Education (CHIME), Biomedical Physics & Biochemical Engineering, and the Centre for Medical Image Computing (CMIC). 
 
         As a result its research has produced a deep, lasting and sustained impact, particularly in Internet technologies, cyber security, and all sectors of industry such as retail and finance. The reach of UCL’s CS extends to the developing world particularly in healthcare and in extending Internet penetration. 
 
         Research impact has been realised at UCL through direct engagement between Computer Science and industry, exemplified by developments in real-time Internet communications which has seen code produced at UCL now found in many mobile devices in use by everyone today. 
 
         UCL’s policy of embedding knowledge transfer in Computer Science is illustrated in its human-centred approach to security in government and commercial applications, from which knowledge has flowed into private industry and government agencies with lasting and widespread improvements in online safety and security. 
 
         Encouraging and facilitating interdisciplinary work has led to significant developments in medical research. Computer Science plays an increasingly crucial role in the development of new analytical and algorithmic tools for use in medicine as exemplified by improvements in prostate cancer diagnosis. 
 
         Computer Science’s successful stimulation of entrepreneurial work and commercialisation of research is witnessed significantly in its 3D Body Surface Scanning for Anthropometrics & Clothing which supported the creation of three successful spinout companies. 
 
         Head of UCL Computer Science, Prof John Shawe-Taylor says: 
 
         “I am immensely proud and honoured to lead a Computer Science Department that has demonstrated such a breadth of research impact across our society. We have led with many seminal contributions in technology that have changed the world; and the REF2014 evaluation is proof of our position as the leader in Computer Science. We will continue to change lives, and we will harness our research to train the next generation of Computer Scientists.” 
 
         Jane Butler, who joined UCL Computer Science after a distinguished career in the Internet industry, and who is now Vice Dean (Enterprise), Faculty of Engineering Sciences says: 
 
         “It is not often that one can compare the exceptional performance and impact of a Computer Science department with the Internet revolution that changed all of our lives - and that I was a part of - but it is true, UCL Computer Science is exceptional in every sense. It is changing our lives and it is changing every sector of industry. Whether it be medical devices and new diagnostic techniques or art and fashion or eGovernment services or keeping our children safe online, they and many other areas of our lives are all part of the core work that UCL Computer Science undertakes in research and brings to its teaching. I am honoured to be part of an outstanding team”. 
 
         Deputy Head of UCL Computer Science, Prof Yvonne Rogers, comments: 
 
         “One of the great strengths of UCL Computer Science is interdisciplinary research, where we explore new ways of combining computer science with other disciplines, for example, 3D imaging and fashion, interaction design and psychology, and cyber security with crime science. My team explore extensively how technology impacts the lives of both the very young and the very old and everyone in between. As digital technologies continue to change our lives in cities, in the home and in our working lives we will continue to perform high impact work that underpins our REF2014 evaluation results”. 
 
         For more information about UCL’s REF2014 evaluation please see www.ucl.ac.uk/news/news-articles/1214/181214-ucl-results-ref
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 18 Dec 14 10:32 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Computer Science... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Robotics and Autonomous...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
