 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Timetables ›› Research Student Induction (PhD) 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
         
          
         Research Student Induction Timetable 
 
         Welcome to the Department of Computer Science! 

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Research Student Induction Week

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           

           	
             
              When is induction week?
             



           	
             
              Getting to UCL
             



           	
             
              Finding the Computer Science Department
             



           	
             
              Finding your way to a specific room
             



           	
             
              Induction timetable
             



           	
             
              What if I miss an induction event?
             



           

          
 
          
 
          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         When is Induction Week?

        
 
         
         
        Induction Week this year begins on Monday 28th September

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Getting to UCL

        
 
         
         
         
          
         If you are coming from abroad or have not yet visited the Main UCL Campus, the address you need to head to is Gower Street, Bloomsbury, London, WC1E 6BT.  

Detailed instructions of how to get to UCL by public transport can be found on the UCL map web pages. The nearest mainline train station is Euston, and the nearest underground stations are Goodge Street and Euston Square.  

We would recommend using the Transport for London Journey Planner below when making your travel arrangements. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
          

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Finding the Computer Science Department 

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          The Computer Science Department is located in the Malet Place Engineering Building, (MPEB), at the southern end of campus.  New students can access MPEB via the Engineering Front Building entrance on Torrington Place opposite Waterstones book shop.  

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Finding your way to a specific room

        
 
         
         
        Rooms at UCL are usually represented by a room code with the exception of some lecture theatres and rooms that are also named after people.  The room code consists of the building name, a floor number, a dot, then the  room number.  
(E.g. MPEB 1.02 = Malet Place Engineering Building, 1st Floor, Room 2) 
 
        UCL is a big place and so you will be given a map as part of your induction pack to help you find your way around in the first few weeks.  
 
        

        
 
        
 
        Useful Tips 
 
        UCL also has a routefinder system which is very useful for finding your way to a particular place, or if you have an iPhone or iPod Touch you can download the UCL iMap app (developed by a UCL CS student), to help you navigate your way around campus.   
 
        

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Induction Timetable

        
 
         
         
         
          
         Your induction timetable can be found in your induction booklet, which was emailed to you at a PDF. 
 
         If you have not received yours yet please email Sarah Turnbull (s.turnbull@ucl.ac.uk )
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What if I miss an induction event?

        
 
         
         
        If you are unable to attend any of the induction events please let the Research Student Administrator know so they can keep you up to date on important information that may have been missed.   
 
        If you are unable to meet with the Research Student Administrator on Monday the 23rd please contact us to arrange another time at which the induction can be held by emailing cs.researchdegrees@ucl.ac.uk. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
