 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› MSc CGVI ›› Resources 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
         
         
          
         
          
           
            
             
              
             

            

           

          

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         MSc CGVI Resources

        
 
         
         
        This page contains some recommended reading before for prospective students before starting the MSc CGVI. However, that material is also useful for current students. It also contains some online resources and repositories of information you will find useful throughout the course. 
 
        Recommended reading before you come
 
        This is a nice general book on image processing, machine vision and computer graphics to give you a good taste of the course content: 

        		The Computer Image 
by Alan H. Watt and Fabio Policarpo


        An excellent book on computer vision with a good introduction to probabilites:

        	      	Computer Vision: Models, Learning, and Inference
by Simon J. D. Prince



        This book is great for getting you up to speed with the maths requirement of the course:

        		Engineering Mathematics 5th ed (Paperback) 
by Dexter J. Booth (Editor), K.A. Stroud (Author)


         We recommend you read and work through the problems in chapters: 
 
        1. Complex Numbers 1 2. Complex Numbers 2 4. Determinants 5. Matrices 6. Vectors 7. Differentiation 10. Partial Differentiation 1 11. Partial Differentiation 2 15. Integration 1 16. Integration 2 24. First order differential equations 25. Second order differential equations 
 
        This is good introduction to Matlab, which is the main programming environment on the course: 

        		Getting Started with MATLAB 7: A Quick Introduction for Scientists and Engineers 
by Rudra Pratap


         However, the Matlab help pages are also very good and you may find you can just work through them without needing a book. 
 
        Other Revision Material
 
        Bernard Buxton has prepared some material to help you get up to speed with the mathematics required on the MSc CGVI. Even if you are confident about your mathematics, we recommend you take the time to review this material over the summer before you begin the course. Follow this link. 
 
        Greg Turk at the Georgia Institute of Technology provides a list of mathematics subjects that are used in computer graphics and machine vision. 
 
        It is also a good idea to practise your programming before you start, especilly if you have are inexperienced or have not programmed for some time. 
 
        General online vision, graphics and other material
 
        CV online contains a large body of teaching material, mainly for computer vision and related subjects, collected from universities around the country. This site contains links to several other similar resources too. 
 
        Mathematica Home Page provides information about Mathematica. 
 
        Matlab Home Page provides information about matlab releases and documentation. 
 
        MathWorld - All the maths you need to know but were afraid to ask. 
 
        ScienceWorld - Wider coverage of general science including physics, chemistry, biology, astronomy and more.
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Jan Kautz 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
