 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› Inserting Images 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
        

        
	Old readers start here

	General Principles

	The TYPO3 "Backend"

	Content Elements

	Editing Content

	Rich Text Editor
	Inserting Images

	Managing Links

	Formats and Styles

	Creating New Pages

	Page properties

	Moving and Copying pages

	The UCL-CS Templates

	Adding Content

	Dividers

	The "Text and Images" element

	Files and TYPO3

	Automatic Menus

	Someone is editing my page!

	Cutting and Pasting

	Spelling check

	Managing your work

	Tracking changes

	Rolling Back

	Hiding pages

	Hiding content elements

	Working in a Draft Workspace

	Previewing your draft

	Publishing from the Draft Workspace

	Browser set-up

	TYPO3 v4.5 - The main changes

	TYPO3 v4.5 - Some more changes

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Introduction

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Files

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Images

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Extensions

	Training


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig 1. Image selection screen
            	


          

         

          
           
          

          One way of including images in your pages is to make use of the "Text with Image" content element which is described elsewhere. However, it is possible, and sometimes more convenient, to insert images using the Rich Text Editor. To begin place, the cursor where you want the image to appear then click the icon to produce the screen shown in Fig 1.

          You should now select the "New Magic Image" tab to show the local file tree. (If you are not familiar with TYPO3 files then please read "Files and TYPO3" first). You can now navigate to the folder that contains your image and click its name to insert it on your page. 

          You can also use this screen to upload image files from your PC by making use of the "Browse ..." and "Upload files" buttons. Before you do this you must set the "Path" by navigating to the folder where you want the image to be placed.
 
          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Resizing Images

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig 2. Using image "handles" to resize an image.
            	


          

         

          
           
          

          The simplest way to re-size an image is to select it and then use the "handles" that appear to drag the image to the required size (see Fig 2). Note that this only works if you want to reduce the size of an image. Also, it does not work with all browsers. 

          Note. Although this sort of resizing works it is generally best to edit the image to the required size before it is uploaded.
 
          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Positioning images

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig 3. Applying a block style to an image.
            	


          

         

          
           
          The default is that images will be placed inline with the text. It is possible to move images by clicking them (single click) and dragging them to a new position. 

          You can also set the alignment of an image by selecting it and applying a "Block style". Begin by selecting the image then click the Block style drop down menu (Fig. 3):

          	leftImage and rightImage do as their names suggest. Note that this only affects horizontal alignment. The vertical position of an image still depends on where the image is inserted in the text. For example, to get the image aligned with the top of the text you need to insert it right at the begining of the text.
	fullWidthImage centres the image and provides white-space to either side of it.


          See the notes on Styles for more information.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
