 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› Browser set-up 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
        

        
	Old readers start here

	General Principles

	The TYPO3 "Backend"

	Content Elements

	Editing Content

	Rich Text Editor

	Inserting Images

	Managing Links

	Formats and Styles

	Creating New Pages

	Page properties

	Moving and Copying pages

	The UCL-CS Templates

	Adding Content

	Dividers

	The "Text and Images" element

	Files and TYPO3

	Automatic Menus

	Someone is editing my page!

	Cutting and Pasting

	Spelling check

	Managing your work

	Tracking changes

	Rolling Back

	Hiding pages

	Hiding content elements

	Working in a Draft Workspace

	Previewing your draft

	Publishing from the Draft Workspace
	Browser set-up

	TYPO3 v4.5 - The main changes

	TYPO3 v4.5 - Some more changes

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Introduction

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Files

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Images

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Extensions

	Training


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
        
        
         
        Generally when editing with typo3 you need to keep track of at least two windows: 

        	The one you are using to do the edits - this is the one which appears once you have logged in to TYPO3;
	 The one you are using to view the final result of your edits - this one pops up when you click an icon which includes the view symbol (). 


        Browsers behave in a variety of ways when they are asked to handle pop-ups. The settings below are recommended to use with TYPO3.

        [N.B. MS-Windows is assumed in these examples.]
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Enabling pop-ups

        
 
         
         
         
          
         Modern browsers often include a "Pop-up Blocker" which is intended to prevent websites from popping up irritating windows with adverts etc. Most people think this is a good thing. However the blocker must be set up correctly in order to allow TYPO3 to work.
 
         Internet Explorer

         	From the Tools menu select Internet Options then the Privacy tab; 
	Assuming you want the Pop-up blocker to operate ensure its box is checked then click on Settings;
	Now using the drop-down menu at the bottom set the Blocking level to Medium: block most automatic pop-ups.
	Click Close then OK.


         Firefox

         	From the Tools menu select Options then the Content tab; 
	Assuming you want the Pop-up blocker to operate ensure its box is checked then click on Exceptions;
	In the Address of website text box enter cs.ucl.ac.uk.
	Click Allow then Close then OK.


         Google Toolbar
 
         This may be installed in either Firefox or Internet Explorer and may include its own pop-up blocker. This should be turned off.

         	Click the spanner symbol on the Google toolbar;
	Select the tools tab
	If a pop-up blocker is shown make sure it is unchecked.

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Enabling tabbed browsing

        
 
         
         
        
          
           
          Modern browsers allow several web pages to be open at one time. You can then switch between them by clicking on one of the tabs which are shown towards the top of the screen (see Fig. 1. below). If tabs are not enabled then each pop-up window launches a completely new instance of the browser which can lead to confusion.
 
           
         

         
          
           
            
             
               Fig. 1. Three tabs in a browser window
              	


            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Internet Explorer 
 
        (Version 7 and later. Earlier versions do not support tabbed browsing).

        	From the Tools menu select Internet Options then the General tab; 
	Click on Settings in the Tabs section;
	Under When a pop-up is encountered: check Let Internet Explorer decide how tabs should open;
	Under Open tabs from other programs in: check A new tab in the current window;
	Click OK twice.


        Firefox

        	From the Tools menu select Options then the Tabs tab; 
	Make sure that Open new windows in a new tab instead is checked;
	Click OK.

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Make your chosen browser the default

        
 
         
         
        Most people stick to one browser. However occasionally a pop-up window will cause a different browser to start. To avoid this make sure your chosen browser is set to be the default.
 
        Make Internet Explorer your default browser

        	Start Internet Explorer;
	From the Tools menu select Internet Options then the Programs tab; 
	In the Default web browser section, if the Make default button is not greyed out then click it ;
	Click OK.


        Make Firefox your default browser

        	Start Firefox;
	From the Tools menu select Options then the Advanced tab;
	Select the General tab (from within the Advanced section);
	Under System Defaults ensure that Always check to see that Firefox is the default browser on start-up is checked;
	Click Check Now and, if Firefox is not currently the default, answer Yes;

 
         
       
 
        
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
