 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students ›› Social Life 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	Active UCLU
	Computer Science Departmental Competitions (Link to Moodle)
	Computer Science Student Shop
	UCL Student Union 
	UCLU TechSociety
	University of London Student Union (ULU)
	Volunteering at UCL


          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Active UCLU

        
 
         
         
        Lifestyle, sport (casual, inter-mural or elite). Check out Active UCLU. 
 
        The Student Gym, (Bloomsbury Fitness), is open to All, including "Pay as You Go" or drop-in Membership. Located on 3rd Floor - Bloomsbury (Theatre) Building, 15 Gordon Street, London WC1H 0AY 
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science Departmental Competitions 

        
 
         
         
        The Computer Science Department runs regular design and entrepreneurial competitions (Via Moodle) in which students are encouraged to test their skills and creativity.  

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science Student Shop

        
 
         
         
        The Department has it's very own online shop where students design the products, decide the prices and help spend the income.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Student Union 

        
 
         
         
        All students can belong to the UCL Student Union, which is located in Gordon Street near the Bloomsbury Theatre. The union provides a wide range of facilities and services. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCLU TechSociety

        
 
         
         
        This is a student society run by students for all Computer Science students, which organises social, sports, careers and cultural events. Please see the Society's webpages at http://www.uclutech.com/ to see what is planned and how to get involved.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Student Central (for University of London students)

        
 
         
         
        You also have access to Student Central, which is a combined facility for all students of the University of London. Student Central is located  on the corner of Malet Street and Torrington Place, near to Waterstone's bookshop, just across the road from the department.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Volunteering at UCL

        
 
         
         
        UCL encourages all of it's students to get invloved in the local community and make the most of the volunteering opportunities that are available.  As well as being a rewarding way to spend your spare time, this experience can also look good on your CV.

        
 
         
       

       To top
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Chris Neil 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
