 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Research ›› Strategic Research Fund 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Strategic Research Fund – 2017 Guidance for requests

        
 
         
         
        The Strategic Research Fund is intended to support strategic initiatives in the department to help develop the research activities and their impact.   
 
        Conference funding requests should be submitted with the required form to Sarah Turnbull.  Academic staff who are at lecturer level or Research Staff will also require a letter of support from their line  manager, and they will be responsible for acquiring the letter of support prior to submitting the application. 
 
        Non-conference funding requests should be submitted by way of a written proposal with all relevant details. The includes addressing the following questions: 
 
        	What is the money for?
	What is the breakdown of costings?
	Why should the department support this from the strategic research fund?

 
        Every non-conference funding request will also require a letter of support from a senior member of the research group of the requester (or another member of UCL who is an expert in the area of the proposed research). The requester is responsible for acquiring the letter of support prior to submitting the application. A requester is not allowed to write his/her own letter of support. 
 
        Note, if the request is 10K or more, or it is not clear whether it is eligible, it will be considered at a Research Committee meeting. Deadlines for being considered at a Research Committee meeting in 2017 are: 
 
        	Monday 24th April 2017
	Monday 24th July 2017

 
        Please email all requests directly to s.turnbull@ucl.ac.uk 
 
        Please be aware that if your proposal is not related to research then we are unable to consider your request and instead direct you to speak to the finance team to use a more appropriate budget. 
 
        This budget is only available to members of staff in the Department of Computer Science 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 17 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Steve Marchant 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
