 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› MPhil/PhD ›› Student Representatives 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
          
         At UCL Computer Science our Student Academic Representatives (or StARs for short) volunteer to represent students’ views to UCL. StARs sit on various committees at a programme, faculty and University level, at which they act as the voice of students, ensuring that UCL takes into account the needs of students in its decision making processes. StARs achieve this through liaising with UCLU and UCL staff to resolve issues. 
 
         We are currently looking for volunteers in the MPhil/PhD programme to take an active role. Please email Sarah at s.turnbull@ucl.ac.uk to sign-up or see http://uclu.org/representation/education/student-academic-representatives-stars for more information. 
 
         Our current StAR is Ruba Abu-Salma. You can contact them by emailing ruba.abu-salma.13@ucl.ac.uk
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Research Group Representatives

        
 
         
         
        
          
           
          As the Department of Computer Science is pretty large, and we are determined to ensure that every student's voice is heard, we also have Research Group Representatives who have volunteered to be the point of contact for Research Students in their group and to pass on ideas, issues and concerns to the department. They are also invited to have their say in activities and events for Research Students in the Department. If you are interested in representing your group, please speak to the head of your department or email Sarah (s.turnbull@ucl.ac.uk). There is no limit on the amount of reps a group may have, and some groups are still looking for volunteers. 
 
           
         

         
          
           
            
             
               Temitayo Olugbade - Human Centred Systems/ UCLIC
               
 
              	


            

           
 
           
            
             
               Ruba Abu-Salma - Information Security
              	


            

           
 
           
            
             
               Kawsar Noor - Intelligent Systems
              	


            

           
 
           
            
             
               Heidy Khlaaf - Programming Principles and Logic
              	


            

           

          
 
          
           
            
             
               Afnan Alsubaihin - Software Systems Engineering
              	


            

           
 
           
            
             
               James Hennessey - Virtual Environments and Computer Graphics
              	


            

           
 
           
             
           
 
           
             
           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 12 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Research Student Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
