 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Students take part in Microsoft Band Hackathon
 
         
          
          

          
          

          
          

         
 
         At Microsoft Ventures Whitechapel, David Xiao and Mark Menezes from UCL Computer Science (BSC and MEng First Years) took part in a prestigious early access hackathon of the yet-to-the-released in the UK Microsoft Band
 
         (http://www.microsoft.com/Microsoft-Band/en-us)
 
         After arriving early in the afternoon, the students along with other participants were briefed with a short presentation about the Microsoft Band, describing the capabilities of the Microsoft Band, and potential uses. 
 
         When the presentation ended, ideas for apps were discussed, where David came up with the idea of creating an app that forced its user to do some exercise. The idea behind the application is that after the user sets a time, the application will wake up the phone, and will sound an alarm. This alarm can only be disabled when the user reaches a certain user-defined heart beat level.
 
         After a sleepless night, David and Mark succeeded in creating such an application, having never developed an Android application beforehand. This demonstrated how simple the SDK for the Microsoft Band was to use. Mark gave the application the name HeartWatch, as it keeps a watch on the user’s heart rate.
 
         The next morning, the participating groups were asked to make a short presentation on what they had achieved overnight, and what they head learnt from the experience. Overall view was that the SDK was very easy to use, and the Microsoft Band itself had left an impressive first impression.
 
         HeartWatch received a warm reception. Whereas the other participating teams had achieved applications that had serious connotations, HeartWatch provided a more amusing approach to what could be achieved with the Microsoft Band. When the final participating team concluded their presentation, they were greeted by a surprise where they were allowed to keep the Microsoft Band that they had been using to develop.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 30 Mar 15 10:37 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Register now for London... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Fully-funded PhD...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
