 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Industry & Outreach ›› Students & Industry 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Students & Industry

        
 
         
         
        Our students enjoy numerous relationships with industry partners and work joint projects, compete to win industry prizes and awards and attend guest lectures, technology demos and presentations. These relationships prepare our students for the wider technology world and can be gateway to an interesting and diverse future career. Companies and individuals wishing to work more closely with our students and get involved in these activities can contact Steve Marchant.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Latest Student News

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Meet UCL's Haskelly Team

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          UCL Computer Science Undergraduates Janos Poteck, Marco Concetto Rudilosso and Marti Serra Vivancos have formed a Haskelly Team and are working on a Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Azure Cloud project, to build a Visual Studio Code extension which supports the teaching and learning of Haskell. The team are developing an Azure hosted toolset entitled SEAT (Scaffolding Exercise Automation Toolkit) which provides a valuable teaching assistant to the Academics and TA in the evaluation of the Haskell learning from students. Students simply submit assignments and resources to the code validation en... [more]
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCLU TechSoc hosts Porticode

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          On the 10–11th December, UCLU Tech Soc held its very own Hackathon called Porticode. The workshops and beginner focus meant that UCL welcomed 65% first-time hacker! A total of 120 attendees, 5 winners, 24 hours?—?the hacks that were produced were incredible. Emily Mears, Tech Soc Vice President, has blogged about Porticode – see below:
 
          "It’s 5am on Sunday morning in the South Cloisters, and I’ve just finished my first can of Monster. In front of me 20 or so students sit at tables, their faces lit by the screens in front of them, with discarded wrappers and water bottles acting as the only proo... [more]
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL's Data Science Hackathon is the first of its kind in the UK

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          UCLU TechSoc and UCL Computer Science have hosted the UCL Data Science Student Challenge, powered by Microsoft Azure Machine Learning. The UCL DSSC is the fourth of its kind in the global series of hackathons, previously been held at Columbia University in New York, ENSAE in Paris, the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore. Through these events, Microsoft aim to ignite a passion for data science, machine learning, analytics and to help students learn and develop valuable technical skills.
 
          Rohan Kopparapu and Kok-Pin Chi, both students at UCL Computer Science, led a dream team of 18 TechSoc ... [more]
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Industry Exchange Network

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          The Industry Exchange Network (IXN) enables students to engage on real-world problem based learning through term-based client projects. The UCL IXN is a pipeline matching industry projects of different levels with students ranging from BSc 1st year students working on Apps Design through to MSc level students working on more advanced Data Science projects. The client projects are driven by charitable works, healthcare sectors, research-steered development, SME/entrepreneurship development, larger scale commercial projects and (6) public sector/policy driven projects.
 
          Industry partner clients suggest projects capable of running strictly to term-times. Each project has a named technical mentor from the company, and a supervisor allocated from UCL. The IXN projects are formally assessed on a UCL module, and the UCL supervisor will lead in the final academic marking of the project. PhD student teaching assistants are also involved in support of the lab time of the in-term projects. Our projects run in the following cycles:

          	MSc summer dissertations need to have requirements by January for start in May.
	MSc small mobile apps need to have requirements by August for start in October.
	BSc small mobile and web apps need to have requirements by October for start in January.
	BSc 2nd Year proof of concepts need to have requirements by May to run October to April (group projects).
	BSc Final Year dissertations need to have requirements by May for start in October.


          The IXN website with more details is here. 
 
          A playlist of projects presented art last year's Apps Showcase event is below.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
           
        
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCLU TechSoc

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          UCLU TechSoc is the only all-encompassing technology society at UCL. Our membership is open to anyone and everyone in the UCL and IoE community. We help bridge the gap between students’ ambitions and potential careers; connecting them to those in the industry and to each other, with talks from across a range of industries, alongside career and alumni events. Our society is also a platform for the development of technical skills; engaging those new to technology and encouraging those that love it, from the project groups to tutorials.
 
          Check out our video below and join us on LinkedIn.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         

        
         
        
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL FIndS

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          UCL FIndS (Financial Industry Series) is a student-run forum that organises high-class conferences, debates and talks on financial topics. Founded in December 2010 with the purpose of providing students and professionals alike with the opportunity to look into the latest topics within the financial industry, members not only develop a comprehensive understanding of the field but also benefit from unique networking opportunities.
 
          In the past, our events have met great demand from students at UCL and other top UK universities as well as from professionals within the industry. To make our events accessible to as many students as possible and to maintain the high standard that we strive towards, we count on the support of our partners including leading financial organisations in The City. See more in the video below.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
        
 
         
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Industry Sponsored Prizes & Awards

        
 
         
         
        We are grateful to the following sponsors for their ongoing support. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         IBM

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          BSc & MEng Computer Science Best Individual Project Prize

          	2015 1st Prize Kinga Mrugala
	2015 2nd Prize Vera Johne
	2015 3rd Prize Kelvin Khoo & Gemma Bartlett

 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Wiley

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          BSc & MEng Computer Science Best Performance in Practical Subjects Prize

          	2016 1st Prize Sadir Hadi

 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         SAS

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          MSc Business Analytics Prize 
 
          *Coming Soon* 
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         BCS

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          MSc Software Systems Engineering 'Best Examination Performace' Prize

          	2016 1st Prize Thomas Mulvaney

 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 14 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
