 
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
   Close 
   
     
      
       
        
        

          

          

          

          
 
       
 
        
        
        
        
      
 
     
 
      
      	UCL Home
	Prospective students
	Current students
	Staff
	Give

 
      
    

   
 
    
     
      
      The Bartlett
 
      Home 
       
     
 
     

    
 
    
     	Home
	Programmes
	Research
	Partnerships
	People
	Latest
	About us


     
     
     
      	Home
	Programmes
	Research
	Partnerships
	People
	Latest
	About us


      
    
 
   
 
  
   
   
    
    
     
   
    
    
     
     
      	UCL Home
	The Bartlett


      
      
       
        
       
 
        
         
          
           
           
             We are The Bartlett: UCL’s global faculty of the built environment. We develop new responses to pressing world issues. 
           
 
           
             Somos The Bartlett: la facultad global de UCL del ambiente construido. Desarrollamos nuevas respuestas a problemas mundiales acuciantes. 
           
 
           
             我们是Bartlett: UCL大学具有全球影响力的建筑环境学院，我们为亟待解决的世界问题寻求新方案。 
           
 
           
             Wir sind The Bartlett: UCL’s internationale Fakultät für gebaute Umwelt. Wir entwickeln Antworten auf die dringlichsten Aufgaben unserer Zeit. 
           
 
           
             Nous sommes The Bartlett: la faculté globale de UCL de l'environnement bâti. Nous développons de nouvelles réponses à des enjeux mondiaux pressants. 
           
 
           
             バートレット校: UCLの建築環境学部です。私たちは、世界が面している、緊迫した問題に対する新たな解決策を生み出します。 
           
 
           
             Nós somos The Bartlett, a faculdade global da UCL de Ambiete Construído. Nós desenvolvemos novas respostas sobre questões mundiais urgentes. 
           
 
          
 
         
 
        
 
       
 
        
         
         
          	The Bartlett
	Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis
	School of Architecture
	School of Construction & Project Mgt
	Development Planning Unit
	School of Planning
	UCL Energy Institute
	 UCL Institute for Digital Innovation
	UCL Institute for Env. Design and Engineering
	UCL Inst. for Global Prosperity
	UCL Inst. for Sustainable Heritage
	UCL Inst. for Sustainable Resources


          
        
 
       
 
        
         
          
          
           
           
             The Bartlett Review
 
            

            The Bartlett is a world-leading, multidisciplinary faculty, united by the radical spirit of UCL. Once a year, we distil that spirit in The Bartlett Review.
 
           
          
          
           
           
             The Bartlett launches new undergraduate and postgraduate courses
 
            

            The Bartlett is pleased to announce a new joint Undergraduate programme and six new Postgraduate courses that are open for applications.
 
           
          
          
           
           
             22 Gordon Street reopens
 
            

            22 Gordon Street, home of The Bartlett Faculty and The Bartlett School of Architecture, has been officially opened by The University of London Chancellor, Her Royal Highness The Princess Royal.
 
           
          
          
           
           
             The Bartlett and UCL Engineering expand to Olympic Park
 
            

            The Bartlett and UCL Engineering will be expanding into premises at Here East on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in summer 2017.
 
           
          
         
 
        
 
       
 
        
         
         
          Programme finder

          	Undergraduate
	Postgrad Research
	Postgrad Taught


          
        
 
       
 
        
         
          
           
            
             
              
              Event 
             
 
              
              Book launch: Jane Rendell – ‘The Architecture of Psychoanalysis: Spaces of Transition’ 
 
               4th May 2017  
 
             
             
              
              Event 
             
 
              
              Walking within the layers of Burgess Park: Interrogating Traces and Fragments 
 
               27th April 2017  
 
             
             
              
              Event 
             
 
              
              UCL ISH April Guest Lecture 'Satisfaction, uncertainty and data in conservation decision making' 
 
               20th April 2017  
 
             
             
              
              News 
             
 
              
              ISH paper on smells of history receives extensive media coverage 
 
             
             
              
              News 
             
 
              
              UCL ISR Director Paul Ekins contributes to new Green Alliance report 
 
             
             
              
              News 
             
 
              
              Bartlett PhD student shortlisted for Architizer A+Awards in New York 
 
             
           
 
            View all  
          
 
         
 
         
         
          
           Follow us 
 
           
           
            

            	Follow us on Twitter
	Facebook
	Follow us on Instagram
	YouTube


            
          
 
         
 
          
           
           
            
             Explore

             Find out what's going on at the Bartlett, subject by subject

            
           

           
            
             Watch

             ResonAte: Sensing Spaces by Felix Faire at the Royal Academy (YouTube)

            
           

           
            
             In the media

              
               
                Energy projects including Hinkley Point threatened by Brexit, experts warn 
 
               
               
                Scientists sniff out a whiff of the past 
 
               
               
                'Play' in urban design 
 
               
               
                Leapfrogging into the light 
 
               
               
                U-shaped skyscraper in New York 
 
               
             
 
            
           

           
            
             Urban Lab 

             

             
               
               urbanlab.jpg
 
                
                
               
 
              
 
             

             Visit the UCL Urban Laboratory website

            
           
 
          
 
         
 
         
        
       
       
       
 
       
 
      
 
     
 
    
 
   
 
  
 
   
   
    
     
     UCL facilities
 
     	Faculties and departments
	Library
	Museums and Collections
	UCL Bloomsbury Theatre

 
     
     
     UCL locations
 
     	Maps and buildings
	UCL and London
	UCL Global

 
     
     
     Connect with UCL
 
     	Alumni
	Businesses
	Media Relations
	Jobs
	Support us

 
     
    
 
    	
	
	
	
	
	
	

 
    
 
    	University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT Tel: +44 (0) 20 7679 2000

 
    	Copyright © 2017 UCL
	Disclaimer
	Freedom of Information
	Accessibility
	Privacy and Cookies
	Slavery statement
	Contact Us

 
   
 
  
   
     
 
