 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help ›› TYPO3 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        What is TYPO3?
 
        TYPO3 is a web Content Management System. It helps with managing pages on the web server and provides facilities for creating new pages and editing existing ones. It can also ensure that pages have a consistent style. 
 
        No special software has to be installed on your PC, you simply use your favourite browser. Once you have logged in, TYPO3 will show you a view of the pages in your part of the web "tree". You can then select a page and edit it, create a new page and so on. The system keeps track of what you are doing so that is possible to restore old versions of pages. You can also create new "hidden" versions of pages which you can show to colleagues prior to making them public. 
 
        [Note. It is helpful to make sure your browser is set up in a way suitable for TYPO3. There are hints on this at the end of these notes.] 
 
        Pages within TYPO3 are organised into a "tree" similar to that of the folders, sub-folders and files in a Windows or Unix file system. It is worth giving some thought to how your pages fit into this tree since TYPO3 will automatically generate indexes showing the "sub-pages" of a page so as to make it easy for users to navigate. 
 
        There is a (very) brief PowerPoint presentation here. 
 
        Documentation
 
        CS Help Pages
 
        This page and those that follow give very brief guides to using various features of TYPO3. Further help can be obtained from: 
 
        TYPO3 Documentation

        	TYPO3 online help. Every time you see the  icon you can click it and read the "official" TYPO3 help. In addition, pointing at a region on the screen will often pop-up relevant help.


        	TYP03 documentation. There is a lot of documentation at typo3.org/documentation/document-library/. Much of this is rather technical and intended for TYPO3 administrators. The "Getting Started Guide" has some useful sections however.


        Other Tutorials
 
        TYPO3 is quite widely used in the University world so people have been busy writing tutorials. A couple are listed below. Do bear in mind that these are written for other people's set-ups and will differ from ours in some details.

        	North Dakota State University tutorial
	University of Toronto Mississauga tutorial

 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
