 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL at Microsoft's Research Faculty Summit
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Microsoft is hosting its seventeenth annual Microsoft Research Faculty Summit in Redmond, Washington. This year the summit focuses on where and how computing can contribute to increasing productivity in professional and personal activities. 
 
         Dr Emiliano de Cristofaro, Senior Lecturer at UCL Computer Science and member of UCL's Information Security Research Group, has been invited to deliver a talk How to keep your Genome Secret, with XiaoQian Jiang, University of California-San Diego; and Kim Laine, Microsoft Research.
 
         Over the last 10 years, the cost of sequencing the human genome has come down to around $1,000 per person. Human genomic data is a gold-mine of information, potentially unlocking the secrets to human health and longevity. As a society, we face ethical and privacy questions related to how to handle human genomic data. Should it be aggregated and made available for medical research? What are the risks to individual’s privacy? This panel will highlight some new cryptographic solutions for securely handling computation on genomic data, including homomorphic encryption and multi-party computation. We have developed demos of SEAL, the MSR Homomorphic Encryption library, which focus on private genomic predictions and health risk related predictions. 
 
         Throughout the summit more than 500 attendees from academia and Microsoft will have the opportunity to participate in sessions ranging from virtual reality, optical networks, streaming analytics and big data infrastructure to the future of work and crowdsourced problem solving. Participants will have the opportunity to stay an extra day to engage in workshops on topics that include quantum algorithms, the edge of AI, and safe autonomous cybersecurity.
 
         See more at https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/event/faculty-summit-2016/ 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 12 Jul 16 19:25 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Computer Science Spinout... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Network Analytics...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
