 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL receives Google grant towards automated fact-checking
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Google has given €150,000 to three UK organisations, including UCL, who are working on fact-checking projects to help journalists and the public avoid falling for fake stories and bogus claims.
 
         The funding announcement comes amid heated debate about the role of companies such as Facebook and Google in spreading fake stories that some claim influenced the results of the US election. The money is part of a €24m (£20.5m) round of funding from Google’s digital news initiative, which backs innovative projects in news across Europe.
 
         €50,000 is being given to a project called Factmata, developed at UCL and the University of Sheffield, led by Dhruv Ghulati, MSc Computer Science graduate, with Dr Sebastian Riedel, Reader in Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning.
 
         In its pitch to Google, Factmata’s founder, Dhruv Ghulati, said it would use machine intelligence “to empower people to question the digital content they read on a daily basis, and not take anything for granted”.
 
         He adds: “By putting advanced fact-checking tools in the hands of the people, we want to make fact checking fun, engaging, and empowering.” 
 
         Dhruv was able to develop his ideas on political fact checking while studying for a Masters Degree in Computer Science: "I took the  MSc to learn to program and dedicate myself to improving my technical skills. UCL Computer Science was flexible enough to allow me to pursue a summer projectwith UCL's Machine Reading Group, so that I could pursue my passion for political fact checking, a concept I already had before starting my masters."
 
         UK fact-checking charity Full Fact and Scottish investigative news site the Ferret are also recipients of Google's awards.  
 
         Though most of the debate around fake news has focused on the role of Facebook, Google has also been criticised. Following the US election, people searching for “final election results” were presented with a false story claiming Donald Trump received more votes than Hillary Clinton at the top of the news results.
 
         Dhruv hopes that this news  encourages other students to pursue fact checking, promise tracking, and other politically related projects - "tricky problems yet to be solved, and fascinating from a machine learning and scalable systems perspective."
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 18 Nov 16 14:26 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL ranked 1st from... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Most updates to mobile...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
