 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
    
      › Home 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         The UCL Department of Computer Science

        
 
         
         
        In the 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF) evaluation UCL was ranked in first place for Computer Science, out of 89 Universities assessed, and considerably ahead of other Institutions. 61% of its research work is rated as world-leading (the highest possible category) and 96% of its research work is rated as internationally excellent.
 
        UCL researchers in Computer Science and Informatics received a ‘grade point average’ of 3.57 (out of 4) and submitted over 70 staff to be assessed in REF2014. UCL Computer Science has made seminal contributions across the full range of its core strengths and associated 11 research groups and 8 centres, including the Centre for Health Informatics & Multiprofessional Education (CHIME), Biomedical Physics & Biochemical Engineering, and the Centre for Medical Image Computing (CMIC). More >>
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Andrea Bittau, 1983-2017
 
          It is with great sorrow that we report the death of Andrea Bittau, who earned his BSc and PhD degrees at UCL Computer Science, and was a much respected student and colleague across the department. An obituary can be found here. Memories of Andrea can be added by sending them to Steve Marchant.  
 
          To honor and remember Andrea’s life, and his talent and passion for computer systems research, the Andrea Bittau Memorial Scholarship has been established, which will support a PhD student at UCL Computer Science. Learn more about the memorial scholarship here.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          
          
           
            
             
              
              
               
              
 
               
                
                 Google announces PhD Fellows at UCL 
 
                 Two Fellowships awarded to support outstanding graduate students doing exceptional research in Computer Science 
 
                More news >
 
               
 
              
  
             
 
            
 
             
              
              
               
              
 
               
                
                 UCL authors pen Research in the Wild 
 
                 E-book examines new directions for Human Computer Interaction away from the lab 
 
                More news >
 
               
 
              
  
             
 
            
 
             
              
              
               
              
 
               
                
                 UCL recognised as Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research 
 
                 Renewal will signal ten years of recognition by the UK’s authority on cyber security 
 
                More news >
 
               
 
              
  
             
 
            
 
             
              
              
               
              
 
               
                
                 Collaborating AI learns to play StarCraft 
 
                 Multiple AI agents have learned to work together to play StarCraft, a science fiction combat video game, by using two-way communication 
 
                More news >
 
               
 
              
  
             
 
            
 
             
              
              
               
              
 
               
                
                 EPSRC funds Blockchain technology for Algorithmic Regulation And Compliance project 
 
                 UCL among funding recipients for projects that explore vast potential of Distributed Ledger Technology 
 
                More news >
 
               
 
              
  
             
 
            
 
           
 
          
 
         
 
          
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           
 
           
            
             
            

           
 
           
            
             
            

           
 
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          
            
             
             
              
              
               

            
 
             
             
             
              
             
 
             Tweets by @uclcs 
              
              
            
 
             
           

          
 
          
            
             
             
              
             
 
              
            
 
             
             
             
              
             
              Virtual Open Days

             
 
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 

                

               

              

             
 
              
            
 
             
             
             
              
             UCL Computer Science models the World
 
             
              
             
 
              
            
 
             
           

          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 08 Mar 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
