 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL Student Project at Microsoft Future Decoded
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The rise of online retailers, big-box-stores, and the increasingly personalized services offered to online shoppers, in conjunction with the economic downturn of 2008 and its residual economic effects, has meant that more and more British shoppers are turning away from the high street to address their shopping needs. 
 
         Although there has been some evidence of better economic performance in recent years, the high street economy has not always followed in step. As a result, there has been a net increase in vacant shop fronts across UK high streets.
 
         To help address the needs of ailing UK high streets, the Spot Markets project was developed as a collaboration between Kent County Council, Microsoft, and UCL Computer Science. This project aims to reinvigorate the high street economy by introducing the sophisticated tools often used by online retailers to the high street environment, democratizing access to them, and ultimately giving small businesses a fighting chance against large corporations with constant access to a significant online audience. The project was led by students Thomas Mulvaney, Ioannis Christou, Savvas Georgiou and Harry Blum.
 
         The Spot Markets project as a whole involves the development and implementation of a core cloud-based architecture which will provide town-specific smart “engines” to match consumers with the sorts of local retailers, products, and offers which are relevant to them. Additionally, the project involves the development of a suite of mobile and web based consumer and retailer applications for posting, accessing, and redeeming offers and deals on the system.
 
         It is hoped that establishing a greater connection between consumers and local retailers will help drive footfall back into the high street. However, the project had a secondary goal of providing valuable insights into those footfall patterns and local consumer habits by providing both retailers and town councils with analytics dashboards. By making the data easy to understand through simple graphics, the Spot Markets System may be able to provide insights into consumer habits that have the potential to drive economic change for the better.
 
         See more at Microsoft's Developer Blog: 
 
         https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/uk_faculty_connection/2016/11/09/university-college-london-student-project-at-microsoft-future-decoded/ 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 10 Nov 16 16:25 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Most updates to mobile... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Computer Science fills...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
