 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL students learn state-of-the-art AI in DeepMind partnership
 
         
          
          

         
 
         DeepMind is known internationally as a leader in an area of computer science called machine learning.  Now senior DeepMind staff are joining forces with UCL’s Department of Computer Science to share their knowledge by delivering a state-of-the-art Master’s level training module called Advanced Topics in Machine Learning.
 
         This new module will provide a key component of UCL’s Machine Learning Master’s programmes and will cover some of the most sophisticated topics in artificial intelligence.  The first of these lectures will take place in January 2017.
 
         The course focuses on deep learning and reinforcement learning, and will be led by DeepMind’s Thore Graepel, who also holds a UCL professorship. Other guest lecturers will include leading researchers in machine learning, spanning areas such as deep learning, reinforcement learning, natural language understanding and others. Hado van Hasselt, Joseph Modayil, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Raia Hadsell, James Martens, Oriol Vinyals, Simon Osindero and Karen Simonyan will be joined by Volodymyr Mnih, David Silver and Alex Graves - who are also some of the first authors of DeepMind’s three Nature papers. 
 
         DeepMind pioneered research in this area, famously creating AlphaGo, a program that plays the ancient Chinese game of Go. In March 2016 AlphaGo made headlines across the world by defeating the best Go player of the decade, Lee Sedol, a feat considered to be at least 10 years away by many experts.
 
         Professor John Shawe-Taylor, Head of UCL Computer Science, said: “We are extremely excited about this new partnership.  The strength of computer science at UCL has been growing rapidly in recent years and now our Masters students will also benefit from superb training provided directly by DeepMind staff. This new partnership in state-of-the-art AI is an excellent example of research-led teaching, for which UCL is renowned.”
 
          Demis Hassabis, CEO and co-founder of DeepMind said: “DeepMind is proud to work closely with the academic community, supporting PhD students and university courses, sponsoring conferences, and publishing our research openly for others to learn from. We hope that this course will offer UCL students a unique opportunity to develop their understanding of deep learning and reinforcement learning at one of the best universities in the world, alongside members of DeepMind.”
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 18 Jan 17 14:19 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Bug-finding MaJiCKe... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Media Futures Group...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
