 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL research scrutinises Web Bluetooth API
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Lukasz Olejnik, Researcher at UCL Computer Science, has given scrutiny to a new Web Bluetooth API, which stands to be one of the core components of Web of Things, the application layer of Internet of Things. It will enable sensors, beacons and user devices to communicate with each other.
 
         Potential privacy problems according to Lukasz include: 
 
         1) Information leaks due to device names. Websites or attackers that can access a Bluetooth-enabled device could determine the owner's real name. Many people use their real names for naming devices, or in some cases, nicknames.
 
         2) Behavioral monitoring. Websites or attackers could query for specific functions, such as the ability to track heart rate, and other sensitive details.
 
         3) Distance monitoring. Websites or attackers can abuse the API's rssi or txPower property to track the user's distance from certain Bluetooth-enabled devices. This would allow a remote attacker to know when a user is at home, at work, or when sleeping.
 
         4) Profiling potential. Websites, attackers, or advertisers could detect a user's living standards and possible wealth based on the devices he shares.
 
         "I expect that a framework making it easy to test, tamper or penetration testing of Bluetooth/IoT/WoT devices will become reality, sooner or later", says Olejnik.
 
         Lukasz Olejnik's comments have been published at 
 
         http://news.softpedia.com/news/new-w3c-web-bluetooth-api-is-a-privacy-nightmare-509805.shtml 
 
         and 
 
         http://www.dailydot.com/layer8/web-bluetooth-api-privacy-security/
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 31 Oct 16 14:21 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Technology is not Neutral >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Dr Alex Silva awarded...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
