 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL Engineering QuanTech exhibition
 
         
          
          

         
 
         We recently hosted the UCL Engineering QuanTech project exhibition at Level 39 Incubator, Canary Wharf. It was an opportunity for major finance companies and experts to hear from our multi-discipline teams from software system engineering, risk management, quants, math, electrical and mechanical engineering specialties.   
 
         Project topics included Big Data, CRM, HFT and derivative modelling, all of which are demanded by multinational companies, and are all examples of the architecture implemented by UCL gen-Y engineers. 
 
         The Faculty of Engineering at UCL is proud to run one of the most successful work placement programs as a mandatory part of specialty finance graduate degrees and we are grateful to our partners - the innovators, inventors, investors, founders, developers and other stakeholders in our programs. We enjoy industry links with hundreds of companies spanning the whole of financial services, including investment banks, retail banks, hedge funds, insurance companies, reinsurance companies, stock exchanges, alternative execution venues and financial services technology firms. 
 
         Financial Computing comprises both Computational Finance (algorithmic trading, risk management, market simulation and portfolio optimisation) and Financial IT (financial software engineering, cloud computing, GPU and scalable high-performance computing). We provide taught courses in Financial Computing at undergraduate (BSc, MEng) and postgraduate (MSc) levels, and training in research at PhD level. 
 
         A video can be found here https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tbm8AglwN5U&feature=youtu.be 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 13 Aug 14 14:56 
         
 
          
          
           Next: 3Dami Summer School at... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Justyna Petke, Bill...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
