 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL Hosts Imagine Cup UK National Finals
 
         
          
          

          
          

          
          

         
 
         UCL Computer Science recently played host to the UK National Finals of Microsoft’s Imagine Cup competition. The world’s premier technology competition is open to students from across the country, and UCL was honoured to host the UK national final. The twelve best teams of student came together to pitch their product ideas to a panel of experts in a bid to win a place in the World Finals in Seattle, as well as a $50,000 prize. UCL was well represented with three teams in the final twelve; hard drive developers Cloudette, wireless filesharers Nearshare, and gamers BoltPushRush. 
 
         UCL Computer Science student and Nearshare developer Kelvin Khoo, said: 
 
         “Being involved in the Imagine Cup finals proved that there is great potential in our application. More importantly it gave us the opportunity to gain professional feedback from the judges in both the technical and business side so that we can further improve our application and bring it to market.” 
 
         Manoj Vaseekharan, of Cloudette said: 
 
         “Competing in the Imagine Cup finals was a great experience. The effort we put into the project throughout the past several months certainly paid off and we were very happy to show the public our work. Cloudette was well received and we were very proud to represent UCL Computer Science. Although we did not win, the feedback was invaluable and the team will continue to refine and develop what we think is a product that everyone will want to own!” 
 
         Dr Dean Mohamedally, Senior Teaching Fellow at the UCL Software Systems Engineering Group, was involved in helping the students develop their ideas. He said: 
 
         “We were delighted that three UCL Computer Science teams made it to the UK Finals – placing our students among the brightest and best engineers in the country – and it has provided an opportunity for all students that enter to kickstart their programming career, and get support and expertise from key industry members.” 
 
         Congratulations to eventual winners Team Ripple from Exeter University who now go on to the world finals in Seattle.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 08 May 14 14:50 
         
 
          
          
           Next: EngD Student wins Bright... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Students present Proof...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
