 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL hosts first-ever CS50 Hackathon London
 
         
          
          

         
 
         On Friday 27th May more than 120 students gathered at UCL Institute of Education for the first-ever CS50 Hackathon London. 
 
         CS50 is Harvard University's introductory course in computer science that's also freely available online via edx.org. In the last years, the course has gained immense popularity around the world through its offering as a MOOC and is now not only taught at Harvard but also at Yale University. While CS50 has run hackathons at both universities and in other cities in the US, this is the first time they have come across the pond to hold a hackathon.
 
         The latter provided students with an opportunity to dive into problem sets or projects alongside classmates, Harvard CS50’s staff, and UCLU TechSoc’s team.
 
         Students who came to the event hailed from all over Europe, with attendees coming from the UK, France, Germany, Netherlands, and Czech Republic and one person even flying in from Chile!
 
         The idea for the event was not to run a competition but to give each attendee an opportunity to learn something new by solving problems collaboratively. Students worked on problems sets or their own projects but also had a chance to learn from walkthroughs held by CS50 staff members and an introduction to machine learning workshop by Microsoft. To round things off, everyone had a chance to take home some snapshots from the photo booth, which you may find here and here.
 
         The event organisers would like to thank the Department of Computer Science and Microsoft for sponsoring the event. Furthermore, we would like to thank the CS50 team, Richard Noss, Michael Walker, ChangeMakers, Digital Education, and Rae Harbird for their support.
 
         The team who worked tirelessly to make this event possible include: Tobias Büschel, Kok-Pin Chi, Pranav Nashikkar, Sachchit Prasad, Marco Greselin, Shanice Ong, Matthew Bell, Fraser Savage, Wilhelm Klopp, Vicky Dineshchandra and Daniel Gavrilov.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 02 Jun 16 11:53 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Data science used to... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Computer Science...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
