 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL research student strikes silver for engineering display in Parliament
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Thomas Rogers, a PhD student at UCL, took the silver certificate at a competition in the House of Commons yesterday (7 March), for his engineering research on cargo inspection, which earned him a £2,000 prize.
 
         Thomas presented a poster about his research into automating and streamlining cargo inspection to MPs, Peers and a panel of expert judges, as part of the annual SET for Britain competition. His work was judged against 59 other shortlisted engineering researchers’ work.
 
         Thomas said: “Although it was very tough and highly intense, I've thoroughly enjoyed this competition. The organisers, MPs and other researchers were all extremely friendly people and it's been a pleasure to present my research at the House of Commons.
 
         “During your PhD, you are focused on the small, intricate details, but this event helps you to zoom out and analyse the picture as a whole. I'm still shocked to have won silver! I'd like to thank everyone from the GriffinLab at UCL, UCL SECReT, and Rapiscan Systems for their help and support.”
 
         SET for Britain aims to help parliamentarians understand more about the UK’s thriving science and engineering base and rewards some of the strongest scientific and engineering research being undertaken in the UK. 
 
         Professor Lord Bhattacharyya, Chairman, WMG, sponsors of the silver award for engineering, commented: “WMG is delighted to sponsor the SET for Britain engineering awards for 2016.  Because Britain needs an economy built on technical innovation, improved productivity and long-term investment, it is crucial that we support innovative research which has the potential to change the way we live. The research being presented shows the great potential in the work of early career scientists in the UK.
 
         “At WMG, we have focused on the practical applications of the highest quality scientific research for over 35 years, driving innovations in fields as diverse as battery technology and healthcare. In the future, the engineers presenting today can make a similar impact on our society. We are proud to support their efforts, and the work of SET for Britain, Stephen Metcalfe MP and the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee in bringing together scientists and parliamentarians to demonstrate how engineering research can improve lives, grow the economy and build a stronger society.”
 
         Professor Dame Ann Dowling OM DBE FREng FRS, President of the Royal Academy of Engineering, said “I’m delighted that so many engineers attended Parliament as part of SET for Britain. 
 
         “Engineers make a difference in all our lives. They create solutions to the issues we face as individuals and as a society. SET for Britain provides a great opportunity for these innovators to connect with the decision makers in Parliament, to showcase the superb engineering research  being carried out in the UK, and the new technologies that can help improve our lives and drive new growth in our industries. 
 
         “From new materials that ensure safe drinking water to novel uses of 3D printing for efficient energy storage, the research exhibited at SET for Britain provides a glimpse of the talent at work in the UK today. We need many more young people to be inspired to take up an engineering career and follow in these footsteps. I hope the MPs and Peers who met the engineers are inspired by what they see, and I am sure they will join me in congratulating all the exhibitors on their excellent work.”
 
         Stephen Metcalfe MP, Chair of the Parliamentary & Scientific Committee said: “This annual competition is an important date in the parliamentary calendar because it gives MPs an opportunity to speak to a wide range of the country’s best young researchers. 
 
         “These early career engineers, mathematicians and scientists are the architects of our future and SET for Britain is politicians’ best opportunity to meet them and understand their work.”
 
         The Parliamentary and Scientific Committee runs the event in collaboration with the Council for Mathematical Sciences, the Institute of Physics, The Physiological Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Society of Chemistry and the Royal Society of Biology, with financial support from Essar, the Clay Mathematics Institute, Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG), the Institute of Biomedical Science, the Bank of England and the Society of Chemical Industry.
 
         For further information about the event, images, or interview opportunities, please contact Aaron Boardley at the Royal Academy of Engineering
 
         T: 020 7766 0655. 
 
         E: aaron.boardley@raeng.org.uk 
 
         SET for Britain is a poster competition in the House of Commons - involving approximately 210 early stage or early career researchers - judged by professional and academic experts.  All presenters are entered into either the engineering, the biological and biomedical sciences, the physical sciences (chemistry), the physical sciences (physics), or the mathematics session, depending on the researcher’s specialism.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 09 Mar 16 11:11 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Classical physics in a... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Students win Google...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
