 
  	  


 

	 Emergencies
 DSE / Workstation
 Policy Documents 
 Further Information
 
 Last Updated: 30th September 2011
 

[back]	 Workstation Safety
 The biggest occupational safety risk in Computer Science is the computer itself! Follow these guides to set up your workstation correctly and use the break reminder software to help prevent RSI problems. 

 For staff and research students, please contact the Safety Officer for an assessment of your workstation setup. We have wrist rests for mice and keyboards, monitor risers and foot rests in stock. More specialised equipment such as split keyboards, trackball mice etc can be obtained after referral to Occupational Health for advice on most appropriate items. 
 Frequently Asked Questions about DSE
 Office / Lab chair adjustment guide

 Workstation setup poster
 Other Internet Resources 
 RSI Association 
 About.com Workstation setup guide 
 Office Ergo.com Workstation setup guide - Extensive description of medical factors involved. 
 The Ergonomics of Web Browsing
  Safe office practice - Great advice on technique and posture published with Loughborough University 
 OSH Answers - ergonomics - The Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety - lots of good advice 
Desk Exercises - The Guardian 
Break Reminders
 These utilities remind you to take regular breaks and micropauses during typing. Please send me any reviews or comments you have on these. Cheqsoft Break Reminder 
WorkRave, a versatile reminder with desk exercise examples, open source, on Windows and Linux. 
Xwrits - for Unix  
AntiRSI - for Mac OSX
 
RSI Guard 
RSI Warrior 
Workpace 
 
 
Other
 
 Write Room - A minimal text editor which aims to reduce eyestrain when typing. This can also be achieved with MS Word using the following hack. 

 UCL Approve Code of Practice for DSE Work

 Keyboard Shortcuts - Extensive list collated by Loughborough University IT Services   
  

		 
      

 The Safety Officer is Dave Twisleton
 Room 4.18, Malet Place Enginering Building
 020 7679 3667 / ext 33667

 
       
 

 
 
