 
   
    
    
    Department of Computer Science
 
   
 
    
    
     
     
     
      
      
       
       
        
        
         
         
         
          
         	Home
	About us
	Athena Swan
	Grants
	Awards
	Picture Galleries
	Events
	News
	Subscribe
	Equalities
	Contact us

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         Tweets by @WomeninCSUCL 
          
          
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
          
          
           
          
           UCL Engineering & The Bartlett to expand into new space at Here East

          
 
           
           
          
           
            
             
              
               
              

             

            

           

            
             
            UCL Engineering and The Bartlett, UCL’s faculty of the Built Environment, will be expanding into premises at Here East on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in early 2016.

            	


            Next year, UCL will take possession of 3,000 square metres of 10 metre high studio space at Here East which will be used to undertake ground-breaking research in areas including architecture, infrastructure, transport, robotics, healthcare, manufacturing and environmental measurement. UCL will also develop new education programmes in creative design, using film and performance as well as robotic and networked screen technologies.

            	


            The scale and novelty of the scheme will enable UCL to pursue new and exciting projects to strengthen interdisciplinary research and teaching. The move also signals UCL’s commitment to engaging with the local community and the London Legacy Development Corporation in advance of the opening of the new campus, UCL East, on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in 2019.

            	


            The deal cements Here East as a destination for creativity and invention, bringing together education, business, technology, media and data to collaborate in its pursuit of innovation. Here East occupy the former press and broadcast centres on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park and provide over one million square feet of versatile spaces.

            	


            UCL’s space will be designed by leading architects Hawkins\Brown, who are also responsible for the design of Here East.

            	


            Professor, Anthony Finkelstein, Dean of UCL Engineering, said: “As a first step in developing its exciting and important presence on the QEOP, UCL will be bringing fabrication, prototyping, manufacturing and robotics to Here East. Our activity, which will span research and teaching also brings together work on engineering and the built environment in a new combination that will cross disciplinary barriers and generate new ideas and technologies."

            	


            Professor Alan Penn, Dean of The Bartlett, UCL, said: “By bringing creative design under the same roof as advanced technological research, with the space to learn about collaborative creativity from the performing arts, we aim to build the cadre of tech savvy creative designers and engineers needed to drive a UK manufacturing renaissance.”

            	

 
             
           

          
 
           
         
 
          
          
          
           
          
           Back

          
 
           
         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
        
          
        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
    	Disclaimer
	Freedom of Information
	Accessibility
	Privacy
	Cookies
	Advanced Search
	Contact Us

 
     Computer Science Department, University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT Tel: +44 (0) 20 3108 7001
 © UCL 1999–2015 
 
   
 
    
  
  
 
