 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL recognised as Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The government’s National Cyber Security Centre and the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council recognise UCL and 13 other universities in the UK as Academic Centres of Excellence in Cyber Security Research.
 
         We are delighted to accept this recognition of our world leading expertise in cyber security, which covers a broad range of areas from securing financial transactions, avoiding bugs in software, cryptography and cryptanalysis to privacy enhancing technologies, preventing cybercrime, and human, economic and organisational aspects of security.
 
         UCL was among the first eight universities to be recognied in 2012 for its excellence in cyber security research and the recognition has now been renewed for another 5 years until 2022.
 
         You can learn more about cyber security research at UCL by reading our blog, attending our public seminar series or visiting our homepage. We also offer a one-year MSc in Information Security for students that want a solid foundation in cyber security.
 
         Prof Steve Hailes, (acting) Head of UCL Computer Science, says:
 
         “The continuing recognition of UCL as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security (ACE) confirms our leading national and international research and teaching expertise in the matters of cyber-security, which contribute directly to the UK’s safe and trustworthy high-tech industry.
 
         "This recognition supports a multi-disciplinary community of scholars within UCL, and contributes to this vibrant research community though the organization of weekly seminars, research intensive retreats, and actions that enhance the visibility of our research within industry and government.
 
         "It also complements our teaching activities, and in particular our MSc in Information Security and BSc, MSc and DPhil in Crime Science, for which UCL is also recognized, as a centre of Teaching Excellence in Cyber Security. We look forward to continue working with industry, civil society and government partners to answer cyber-security challenges, that otherwise threaten individual’s privacy, business, national security but also the safe daily benefits of technology for everyone.”
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 10 Apr 17 14:16 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL authors pen Research... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Collaborating AI learns...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
