 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL Students win Google Firebase Hackathon
 
         
          
          

         
 
         A team of four UCL Computer Science students - Tobias Büschel (MSc Computer Scienc), Kimeshan Naidoo (MSc Computer Science),  Jia Shern Tan (BEng Mechanical Engineering) and Edward Mothershaw (MSc Computer Science) has won the third annual "Static Showdown" competition presented by Google Firebase. 40 teams and about a hundred people from around the world competed.

         
          Static Showdown is a worldwide virtual competition where teams of up to four have 48 hours to build a web app - with one catch: entries must be built without any custom server-side code. That means 100% HTML, JS, CSS and off-the-shelf back-end services like the Firebase Database.

          
           The winning app


          

          
           Nibbl VR Tour allows you to travel in Virtual Reality through Google Street View.
 
           Have you ever wanted to visit somewhere but never found the time? Now you can with Nibbl VR Tour! Nibbl gives its users the ability to visit their dream destinations in virtual reality in the comfort of their own living rooms. It is crrently supporting tours all the way from San Francisco to Singapore.

          

          
           The idea behind the app is simple. Virtual reality is becoming more accessible and popular among consumers and the developer community is growing daily. However, the team realized that Google's popular Cardboard does not yet provide developers with an option to easily develop web apps using a JavaScript SDK and subsequently deploying them to mobile devices using PhoneGap. Thus, we wanted to create an application that showcases the possibility of creating such a virtual reality application in a browser; one that works seamlessly on different devices and could be deployed as a native app. The result is a simple app that allows you to travel your favourite routes and explore new cities in virtual reality.

           
            Technologies used

           

           
            AngularJS, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bower, NPM, Grunt, and Firebase.

           

          

         

         
          
 

         
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 04 Mar 16 11:37 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL research student... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Virtual reality study...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
