 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL's Data Science Hackathon is the first of its kind in the UK
 
         
          
          

          
          

          
          

          
          

         
 
         UCLU TechSoc and UCL Computer Science have hosted the UCL Data Science Student Challenge, powered by Microsoft Azure Machine Learning. The UCL DSSC is the fourth of its kind in the global series of hackathons, previously been held at Columbia University in New York, ENSAE in Paris, the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore. Through these events, Microsoft aim to ignite a passion for data science, machine learning, analytics and to help students learn and develop valuable technical skills.
 
         Rohan Kopparapu and Kok-Pin Chi, both students at UCL Computer Science, led a dream team of 18 TechSoc members who worked with Dr Kenji Takeda and Chirag Dhull from Microsoft, to design, resource and implement this fantastic event, with the help of PSCL Global.
 
         "It was a fantastic experience working closely with Microsoft to organise UCL's first ever large hackathon. We're also very proud to be the first UK university to be given this opportunity and hope to strengthen our relationship with Microsoft in the future.", said Rohan Kopparapu.
 
         The hackathon was focused around improving people's lives by applying Azure Machine Learning to a large number of data sets, ranging from open government data to healthcare data sets from Nuffield Health. It also included data sets from a UCL MSc Software Engineering project, PEACH. Project PEACH will be a contributor to future data science and e-health projects, which will be showcased at the National University of Singapore and the National Institute of Informatics Tokyo later in February 2016.
 
         "We were truly impressed by all the great projects that the students created over the weekend. The level of creativity, enthusiasm, and technical depth of all of the participants was inspiring for us. The event really showed how data science can take raw numbers and turn them into transformational experiences to allow all of us to live happier lives and achieve more", explains Dr Kenji Takeda from Microsoft Research. 
 
         The winning teams were:
 
         1st place - London Living: see [live demo] (https://bit.ly/livelondon) - Tobias Büschel - Jia Shern Tan - Jack Kleeman - Assaf Yossifoff
2nd place - Tawesome: - George Govedarica - Nancy Amelia - Ryan Tan Ti Ern - Justin Kim
3rd place - Sleeping on the Job: see [GitHub repository] (https://github.com/agusarridho/dssc_ucl_20160207) - Agus Nur Hidayat - Andrew Dumit - Hermawan Adi Budyanto - Federico Fontana 
 
         The judges for this event were:
- Professor John Shawe-Taylor, Head of UCL Computer Science - Dr Jacob Spoelstra, Director for Data Science, Microsoft - Dr Kenji Takeda, Microsoft Research - Dr Dean Mohamedally, UCL Computer Science - Chirag Dhull, Microsoft - Donald Lawrence, UCL Computer Science - Emily Raeker, Microsoft - Xavier Dupre, Microsoft Azure - Jen Stirrup, Data Relish Ltd - Geoff Hughes, Microsoft - Peter Coates, NHS Open Source UK.
 
         The UCLU TechSoc crew who worked tirelessly to make this event possible:
- Rohan Kopparapu - Kok-Pin Chi - Hekla Helgadottir - Benjamin Ryves - Jasmine Lu - Axel Goetz - Arvika Christy - Vicky Dineshchandra - Minttu Alakuijala - Emily Mears - Wilhelm Klopp - Reemma Muthal Puredath - Daniel Gavrilov - Henry Mortimer - Apinan Hasthanasombat - Diana Lee - Zahra Traboulsi - Bruno Calogero - Rajind Karunaratne.
 
         Prizes were awarded to the top three teams, which included Microsoft Band 2s, Star Wars BB-8 robots and Microsoft Xbox Ones.
 
         All students participating received certificates signed by Professor John Shawe-Taylor and Dr Jacob Spoelstra. We hope that all attendees enjoyed the experience as well as improved their data science skills for their CVs. 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 08 Feb 16 16:27 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Google Research Award... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: EPSRC Autonomous...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
