 
   
    
     
      
      Vision and Imaging Science
      
 
      Department of Computer Science
     
 
    
 
     
     
       
     
 
    
 
   
 
  
 
   
   
    
     
      
       
       
       
       
       
     
 
    
 
   
 
    UCL Home ›› Computer Science ›› Vision and Imaging Science ›› Home  
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
    
    
     Home
    

    
     People
    

    
     Projects
    

    
     Activities
    

    
     Publications
    

    
     Getting Here
    
 
   
 
    
     
      
       
      
       
        Vision and Imaging Science Group

       

      

      
       
        
         
          
         

        

        
         Computer vision and image processing aim to extract useful information from images and movies. Possible applications include face recognition, automated analysis of medical images, robotics, visual inspection for production lines and building 3D models of the real world. 

        

       

      

      
       
        
         
          
         

        

        
         One reason that image analysis is an interesting research problem is the sheer amount of data involved. A VGA (640x480) camera collecting data at 30Hz provides 27 Mb of image data per second. Medical images tend to be of at least an order of magnitude larger. A perrenial issue is how to efficiently extract salient and useful parts of this huge datastream. Other research investigates the geometry of multiple cameras and how they relate to objects in the scene. A further area of work involves building statistical models of the appearance and shape of objects in the images - these can then be used for segmentation or object recognition.

        

       

      

      
       
        
         
          
         

        

        
         Vision and Imaging Science makes use of mathematical techniques including geometry, statistics, physics, statistical decision theory, signal processing, algorithmics and analysis/partial differential equations. Computer vision is closely related to several other academic fields, including computer graphics, neural networks and machine learning, robotics, biological vision and wearable computing. 
 
          

        

       

      

      
       
        
         
          
         

        

        
         The Vision and Imaging Science group at UCL consists of 8 academic staff and more than 40 post-docs and students. We host numerous seminars and reading groups, and organize several related M.Sc. courses. Particular interests include face recognition, medical image analysis, statistical modelling of colour information, tracking for augmented reality, diffusion tensor imaging, inverse problems and building mathematical models of shape and appearance.

        

       

      
 
       
     
 
      
      
       This page was last modified on 16 Nov 2015.
      
 
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
 
   
    
    
    
 
   
 
   Department of Computer Science - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 7214 - Copyright © 1999-2015 UCL
 
    
    	Disclaimer | 
	Accessibility | 
	Privacy | 
	UCL Search | 
	UCL-CS Help

 
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
