 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         UCLU TechSoc hosts Porticode
 
         
          
          

         
 
         On the 10–11th December, UCLU Tech Soc held its very own Hackathon called Porticode. The workshops and beginner focus meant that UCL welcomed 65% first-time hacker! A total of 120 attendees, 5 winners, 24 hours?—?the hacks that were produced were incredible.
 
         Emily Mears, Tech Soc Vice President, has blogged about Porticode – see below:
 
         "It’s 5am on Sunday morning in the South Cloisters, and I’ve just finished my first can of Monster. In front of me 20 or so students sit at tables, their faces lit by the screens in front of them, with discarded wrappers and water bottles acting as the only proof of time passing. To quote the remarks of a passer-by, they are ‘just sitting there all night’.
 
         "What I am witnessing is the night shift of UCLU TechSoc’s very own hackathon, Porticode. The meaning of the word hackathon is easy to grasp at, but lots of people don’t get it quite right. These students have 24 hours to make something, anything, that uses technology and that might win them a prize at the end. The prizes are awarded in categories, so they might focus on making something purely for kicks (there is a prize for funniest hack) or go for a creation so polished that they could sell it to a consumer tomorrow.
 
         "Generally, hackathon competitors are skilled programmers with a lot of experience. This, combined with the competition and the high level of stress that comes with the time pressure, can make hackathons a daunting experience. Porticode, however, is a bit different. For 60% of the people here this is the first hackathon that they have attended, and many have no coding experience beyond what they have learned over the last 12 hours.
 
         "Porticode was designed to be a hackathon for beginners, and to break down the barriers that often stop students from entering the scene. Workshops run by TechSoc committee members and sponsors helped get the hackers on their feet, giving them tools and skills that they could use in their projects. Then mentors, each with their own area of expertise, roamed the floor answering questions, giving hints and ensuring no one was left stranded.   
 
         "As the sun rose, the 24 hour hacking period drew to close and prizes were awarded to the winners of each category. The prizes for the funniest hack and the most innovative hack both went to attendees that had never been to a hackathon before. The funniest hack winners, who made an automated version of the famous wikipedia game, learned JavaScript from scratch at the event. The main prize went to Sumantha, a program that summarises slack conversations that you’ve missed. There was also a team that made fantastic use of an API provided by our sponsor, Skyscanner. It allows people waiting in the same airport to communicate and meet each other. The full list of submitted projects and winners can be found here.
 
         "We hope that the event has inspired people to go on and hack bigger and better things in the future. The TechSoc committee had great fun organising and running it, and has encouraged us to work just as hard on more hackathons in 2017. You can check out photos of the event here. Thanks everyone for coming!"
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 04 Jan 17 14:23 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCLIC featured in IET... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Machine learning to help...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
