 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Undergraduate 2nd Year Project Demonstrations with Industry
 
         
          
          

         
 
         
          2nd Year BSc & MEng students recently presented their Systems Engineering projects to industry leaders at a specially organised presentation session. Industry partners from IBM, Microsoft and Facebook had front row seats and marked students on how their "Innovation Products" stood up to industry scrutiny. Our students worked hard over the year preparing new technology ideas and projects to address high priority use cases; such as: 

         

         
          
           	energy analytics in homes
	heads up display technologies in networked vehicles
	occupancy testing in workplaces
	bringing small businesses the benefits of cloud systems
	automation and remote monitoring in care homes and hospitals 
	creating embedded interactive systems for schools and entertainment, and more. 


           At the end of the sessions our industry guests had the chance to network with students and then informally meet with them and the other companies attending. A closing presentation was also made by Prof Mark Harman, Head of Software Systems Engineering, to outline our current and upcoming research agendas.  
 
           Pictured are Dean Mohamedally (UCL), Geoff Hughes (Microsoft UK), Tahir Khan (IBM UK), Bharat Bedi (IBM UK), Arjmand Samuel (Microsoft Research USA), Phil Cross (Microsoft UK), Graham Roberts (UCL) and Ruth McIntyre (Facebook UK/Ireland). 
 
           We are also delighted to announce that Geoff Hughes and Tahir khan have been given honorary research associate titles within the Department. We thank our guests for their support.

          

         
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 30 Apr 13 16:23 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Students' charity app... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: CoMPLEX PhD student wins...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
