 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Undergraduates present at EHI Live Medical Technology Conference 
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Computer Science students Henry Scott-Green, Alexander Gamble and Iustin Sibiescu recently travelled to Birmingham to present their software engineering project, Pathways, at the EHI Live medical technology conference.
 
         Developed in collaboration with Dr. Sarah Payne and the Guy's and St. Thomas' NHS trust, a leader in the field of clinical oncology, Pathways is a product built to provide efficient information delivery to gastrointestinal cancer patients. 
 
         Before the development of Pathways, vital treatment information was delivered to patients via paper handouts, often unavailable during consultations and frequently misplaced by patients. Pathways replaces this paper-based system, providing a centralised online portal a patient can access from any smartphone, tablet or computer. Personalised treatment information on symptoms, radiotherapy,  chemotherapy, surgery, nutrition and test results can be securely accessed by every patient through their portal, reducing anxiety and increasing treatment satisfaction.
 
         The third year undergraduate students were invited to present at the conference alongside Guy's and St. Thomas' clinicians Dr. Sarah Payne and Dr. Saira Chowdhury after being awarded the DUCO prize for the most outstanding second year undergraduate project. In addition to EHI Live, the largest medical technology conference in England, Pathways was presented by the clinical team at the National Cancer Research Institute oncology conference in Liverpool.
 
         Both the UCL Computer Science students and NHS clinicians are enthusiastic about further development and patient trials of the application.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 25 Nov 15 12:08 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Ingemar Cox paper wins... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UK to shine a spotlight...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 3 items
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
