 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Degree Programme
      ›› Second Year ›› Welcome Back 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Welcome back! 

        
 
        Welcome back to the second year, and many congratulations on making it through the exam process. Our second year expectations are much as our first year, except that we believe that you should be even more independent as learners; use us to help you learn, seek help where you need it, but look to rely on your own resourcefulness in dealing with academic problems. As before, we have a year coordinator to help with organisational matters, and the tutorial system to help with personal issues. One interesting aspect of the tutorial system this year is its emphasis on transferable skills. Asking you to prepare presentations, take notes, or produce CVs may seem incidental to your academic needs, but transferable skills are hugely important to employers; they care both that you have appropriate technical knowledge and that you can communicate knowledge and results to peers, customers, management, etc. Licia Capra (
        L.Capra@cs.ucl.ac.uk) is the 2nd year coordinator, ready to help with organisational matters and questions about options. 
        
 
        Structure of the teaching terms in the 2nd year for BSc and MEng Computer Science 
 
        
 You will find the BSc and MEng curriculum web pages here:  
        http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/students/undergrad_inf/curriculum/
 
        
showing the modules you are taking. The module codes (e.g., COMP201P) have changed since last year, into the IEP format.
        

        
In term 2 you take the first module of the IEP minor that you have selected. More information about the minors can be found here:
        

        
http://www.engineering.ucl.ac.uk/current-students/ 
        

        
In addition there are the four Scenario Weeks, where you spend the entire week working on a project or challenge with no other teaching timetabled.
        

        
Term 1 has the structure:
        
5th Oct - 30th Oct, first 4 weeks of your term 1 modules
        
2nd Nov - 6th Nov, Scenario Week 1: Configuring a tool chain and cloud services in a VM environment (assessed as 15% of COMP204P)
        
9th Nov - 13th Nov, Reading Week
        
16th Nov - 11th Dec, second 4 weeks of your term 1 modules
        
14th Dec - 18th Dec, Scenario Week 2: HCI, Requirements and UML modelling (assessed as 10% of COMP203P plus part of the HCI coursework, equivalent to 15% overall of the module mark). 
        

        
Term 2 has the structure:
        
11th Jan - 15th Jan, Scenario Week 3: Information Security (assessed as 15% of COMP204P)
        
18th Jan - 12th Feb, first 4 weeks of your term 2 modules
        
15th Feb - 19th Feb, Reading Week
        
22nd Feb - 26th Feb, Scenario Week 4: Maths Challenge (assessed as 15% of COMP203P)
        
29th Feb - 24th Mar, second 4 weeks of your term 2 modules (note that term ends on a Thursday due to Easter) 
        
The Scenario Weeks are self-contained and completed within the one week allocated.
        

        
Note that COMP203P is the CS version of the module ENGS202P run by other departments in the Faculty.
        

        
Term 3 has the structure:
        
Mon 25th - start of week and revision lectures for exams. Wed 27th - Systems Engineering Projects Presentation Day.
        
Thurs 28th, through May - Exams, the timetable is due to be published in late February, and until then the specific dates of your exams are unknown.
        
30th May - 10th June
        
The final IEP event in the academic year will be the How to Change the World challenge, during the last two weeks of term 3 . This is assessed and part of the curriculum that you must attend to be complete for your studies. When planning things like booking travel home, internship start dates, and so on, select dates after the 10th June.
        

        
 
        
 
        Structure of the teaching terms in the 2nd year for MEng Mathematical Computation  (non-IEP)
 You will find the MEng curriculum web page here: 
        http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/teaching_learning/undergrad_inf/curriculum/year_2_meng_math_computation/

showing the modules you are taking. The module codes (e.g., COMP201P) have changed since last year, into the IEP format.
        

        
 Term 1 has the structure:
        
5th Oct - 30th Oct, normal teaching of COMP and MATH modules
        
2nd Nov - 6th Nov, no teaching of COMP modules but MATH modules continue as normal
        
9th Nov - 13th Nov, Reading Week
        
16th Nov - 11th Dec, normal teaching of COMP and MATH modules
        
14th Dec - 18th Dec, no teaching of COMP modules but MATH modules continue as normal 
        

        
Term 2 has the structure:
        
11th Jan - 15th Jan, no teaching of COMP modules but MATH modules continue as normal
        
18th Jan - 12th Feb, normal teaching of COMP and MATH modules
        
15th Feb - 19th Feb, Reading Week
        
22nd Feb - 26th Feb, no teaching of COMP modules but MATH modules continue as normal
        
29th Feb - 24th Mar, normal teaching of COMP and MATH modules
        

        

        
Term 3 has the structure:
        
Mon April 25th - start of week and revision lectures for exams.
        
Thurs April 28th, through May - Exams, the timetable is due to be published in late February, and until then the specific dates of your exams are unknown.
        
30th May - 10th June The final event in the academic year will be the How to Change the World challenge, during the last two weeks of term 3. This is part of the Mathematical Computation curriculum and is assessed. You must attend to be complete for your studies. When planning things like booking travel home, internship start dates, and so on, select dates after the 10th June. 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Steve Marchant 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
