 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Prospective Students ›› Why Study Here? 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Why Study Here?

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	The Department


	World-class


	Cutting-edge


	Location


	Innovation


	Diversity


	Find Out More


          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Department

        
 
         
         
        

        
         

         	The Department is a global leader in research in experimental computer science.

	Our academic staff are well known experts in their fields, and in the recent Research Excellence Framework evaluation, UCL Computer Science was ranked in first place ahead of 89 other institutions. 

	 We teach our students using state of the art equipment in a custom-built building in the heart of the London. 
	Our degree programmes recognise the ever-increasing importance of computer systems in fields such as commerce, industry, government and science. 
	Strong practical and analytical skills developed during your studies will leave you well-placed to meet the growing global demand for graduates in this fast-moving industry.  


         

        

        

        
   
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          World Class
 
          

          
           UCL offers you a 
           unique and richly rewarding 
           experience including academic challenge, personal development, and acquisition of life-skills 
           that will allow you to fulfil your aspirations for your future. 
           
 
           UCL is internationally well regarded and achieves consistently high rankings in external assessments and league tables.  
 
           The QS World University Rankings 2012 ranked UCL 4th best university in the World.  

          

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Cutting-edge

        
 
         
         
         

        
         The curriculum for each of our degree programmes is continuously reviewed to ensure that it includes the latest discoveries and developments in the field – much of this is drawn from leading research undertaken by the staff who will teach you.  

         Because we have some of the top UK research groups in many fields, you will be supervised by academics at the very forefront of computer science

        
 
        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Location

        
 
         
         
         

        
         UCL’s location in central London offers outstanding academic, professional and social benefits. Internationally renowned resources, such as the British Library, are within walking distance; our strong links with industrial and professional bodies based in the capital provide real-world experience. Vibrant and exciting, London offers boundless opportunities for social and leisure activity.

        
 
        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Innovation

        
 
         
         
         

        
         Known for pioneering new approaches in education, your studies at UCL will provide a global perspective aimed at helping you identify, and potentially contribute to solutions for, problems and issues affecting the global community. Training in study and personal skills is embedded in our degrees, and our teaching embraces the most up-to-date approaches in e-learning as well as vital personal interaction in small-group or one-to-one tutorials.

        
 
        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Diversity

        
 
         
         
         

        
         Our students are selected on the basis of their talent and potential, irrespective of their social or national background. With around 35% of our students coming from outside the UK, UCL has a cosmopolitan, friendly and inclusive atmosphere.

         We actively encourage female applicants on our degree programmes.  There are several female lecturers and professors in the department as well as women on our research, administrative and technical teams.  UCL is a member of the charter for Women in Science, and was presented with a Bronze Athena SWAN Award for its work towards the advancement and promotion of the careers of women in Science, Engineering and Technology.

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Find Out More

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
           
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Department of Computer Science, UCL (University College London)
 Malet Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK
 Phone: 020 7679 7214 (+44 20 7679 7214)
 Fax: 020 7387 1397 (+44 20 7387 1397) 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
