 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› Working in a Draft Workspace 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
        

        
	Old readers start here

	General Principles

	The TYPO3 "Backend"

	Content Elements

	Editing Content

	Rich Text Editor

	Inserting Images

	Managing Links

	Formats and Styles

	Creating New Pages

	Page properties

	Moving and Copying pages

	The UCL-CS Templates

	Adding Content

	Dividers

	The "Text and Images" element

	Files and TYPO3

	Automatic Menus

	Someone is editing my page!

	Cutting and Pasting

	Spelling check

	Managing your work

	Tracking changes

	Rolling Back

	Hiding pages

	Hiding content elements
	Working in a Draft Workspace

	Previewing your draft

	Publishing from the Draft Workspace

	Browser set-up

	TYPO3 v4.5 - The main changes

	TYPO3 v4.5 - Some more changes

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Introduction

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Files

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Images

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Extensions

	Training


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
        
        
         
        
         Workflow - the "draft" workspace

        
 
         
         
        So far we have been working in TYPO3's "Live Workspace". In this workspace, each time you save some content (by clicking , or ) your changes are immediately visible to anyone browsing your page. For doing small corrections this is fine. For making major changes you might like to be able to take your time; editing, saving, reviewing, having a cup of tea, making some more changes, sleeping on it, showing it to others etc. before finally releasing your new version to the world. 

        TYPO3 achieves this by allowing you to work in a separate, draft workspace. Once you begin to do this there are two copies of your page:

        	One in the LIVE workspace - this is the one the public sees;
	One in the draft workspace - you can see this one (and modify it) but the public cannot.


        Once you are happy with the modifications you have made in the draft workspace you can publish the page. This copies the page and its content from the draft workspace to the LIVE workspace so that the new version becomes visible to the public.

        A draft workspace may be shared by several users each of whom will be able to see the others' changes. An individual user may have access to several such draft workspaces - but can only select one at a time. There is only ever one LIVE workspace.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Selecting a draft workspace

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig. 1. Selecting the "CS Draft" workspace.
            	


          

         

          
           
          Draft workspaces have to be enabled for your account. Please ask if you would like this done.

          To select the draft workspace use the drop-down menu in the top right-hand corner of the TYPO3 screen (see Fig. 1). Three workspaces are shown; the LIVE workspace, the generic draft workspace and one called CS Draft which we select. 
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Creating a new version of an existing page

        
 
         
         
        With the current set-up there is no need to take any explicit action to create a draft version. As soon as you begin to edit a page in the CS Draft workspace a draft will be created. Any changes you make now will affect your draft but will leave the online version unaltered. (You can check this by switching back to the LIVE workspace.)

        Once you have saved a draft you can safely logout. You will find the draft is still there next time you login and select the CS Draft workspace.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Where am I and what's going on?

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig. 2. Indications that the draft workspace is active
            	


          

         

          
           
          Obviously it is important to be aware of whether you are in the LIVE workspace or a draft one. TYPO3 gives you two clues that you are in a draft workspace. These are illustrated in Fig. 2:

          	The background to the TYPO3 title bar changes to a stripy-orangey colour;
	Pages for which drafts exist are highlighted with a different coloured background. (Note that at present this seems to work OK for new pages but not for modified ones);

 
          At any time you can swap between the LIVE and draft workspaces by means of the box shown in Fig. 1.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Publishing your draft

        
 
         
         
        Once you are satisfied with your draft version you may want to show it to others to review. Finally you will want to move it into the LIVE workspace - i.e. to publish it. The various ways to do this are discussed in the next section.
 
         
       
 
        
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
